
Skip to main content

    web
    texts
    movies
    audio
    software
    image
    logo
    search
    Search the Archive

    upload
    personSIGN IN

Full text of "Outlines of Chinese history"
See other formats

:■■••" 






bras 

in 




Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2013 



http://archive.org/details/outlinesofchinesOOIiun 



57. 



/ 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



I^fll^ 



OUTLINES 

OF 

CHINESE HISTORY 



BY 

LI UNG BING 

EDITED BY 

PROFESSOR JOSEPH WHITESIDE 
( Soochow Un iversity ) 

With Coloured Maps and Illustrations 



Shanghai 

THE COMMERCIAL PRESS, LIMITED 

1914 



7Ji>' 



Alyl, RIGHTS RESERVED 



W6 




To the memory of 

My late father, Li Tali Chang, 

under whose guidance I first 

studied English, 

This volume is dedicated 



PREFACE 



The present book was written for two classes of Chinese. To 
those who are Studying English, it is not so much an attempt to 
teach Chinese History by English as English through the medium of 
Chinese History. Certainly it will prove doubl} 7 interesting to read 
the facts of the history of one's own country in a foreign tongue 
which he is making an effort to learn. To those to whom Chinese 
History must otherwise remain unknown, it is hoped that the " Out- 
lines " may induce them to seek further knowledge from the original 
sources. The recent events which are introducing a new epoch in 
China make a stud}' of our ancient institutions doubly necessary. 

As the name indicates, the book is an elementary history, and, 
as such, it necessarily represents a small selection from an immense 
range of facts. In making the selection I was largely guided by the 
following principles: First, to show that the present has grown out 
of the past. Secondly, to emphasize those events and institutions 
which together go to make up the " Soul of China," as a contributor 
in the "justice" aptly terms it. Thirdly, to present such short- 
comings of our own people as we can no longer afford to ignore- 

For the convenience of the reader, allusions to classical passages 
are accompanied by the original text and names of persons and places 
given in both English and Chinese. In Romanization I have tried to 
follow Gile's system, as far as possible. 

The list of authors to whom I am indebted for information is too 
long to enumerate. For the period of the Manchu Empire, which, 
as a matter of fact, constitutes what may be termed the Modern 
History of China, and which takes up the larger portion of the book, 
I have derived much help from Wong Yung-po's "Middle School 
Chinese History of the Present Dynasty." So long as the " Histori- 
cal Archives" in Peking remain closed to the public at large, his 
work, which received the approval of the now defunct Board of 
Education at Peking, must be regarded as the only authority. 

English not being my native tongue, the shortcomings of the 
book are sure to be many, but the help of my friends has undoubtedly 
lessened its faults to a # great extent. 

In this connection, particular mention should be made of Pro- 
fessor Joseph Whiteside, who edited the book, and of Fong F. Sec, 
M.A., of the Commercial Press, Ltd., for his valuable help in reading 
the proof sheets and my other former colleagues of the English 
Editorial Department, who kindly arranged an index for the book 
and otherwise assisted me in the compilation. Lastly I also desire 
to thank the Lithographic Department for making the maps the book 
contains. 

Li Ung BlNG. 
Foochow, 

May <?, 1914. 



EDITOR'S PREFACE 



The fact that China has an unbroken history extending as far 
back as the early beginning of written records gives her a unique 
place among the nations of the earth. Other ancient empires rose, 
flourished and fell ; but the Chinese, whose far beginning is lost in 
antiquity, still " make porcelain, souchong tea, with innumerable 
other things ; and fight, under Heaven's flag, against Necessity." 

Mr. Li Ung Bing, who has surveyed the historical records from 
the beginning down to our own day, is to be congratulated on his 
diligence in giving us in his more than 600 pages what he here 
modestly calls Outlines of Chinese History. He has not only made use 
of the Chinese sources in gathering his facts, but has also made him- 
self familiar with much that foreigners have written concerning the 
history of his country; and with this double advantage he has been 
able to trace the checkered career of China in bold outline and with 
marvelous condensation. 

With the instinct of a true historian, the author has seized upon 
the most dramatic events in the long history of the Chinese people 
and their neighbours and has presented them with a directness and 
interest that are absorbing — not to say thrilling. 

Closely akin to this is his ability to depict in a striking manner 
the great personages from the days of Yao and Shun to Li Hung- 
chang. To pass over the ancient worthies and mention only a few 
names, he gives us such clear-cut pictures of Nurhachu, Wu San- 
kuei, Tseng Kuo-fan, Tso Tsung-tang and many others that we 
never forget them. 

After a careful reading of Mr. Li's work in manuscript and in 
proof sheets, I can commend it to all who wish to read Chinese 
history from the most enlightened Chinese point of view. To my 
mind, this is cne of the most interesting and valrable features of his 
work, and it ought to do not a little toward giving English readers a 
fuller and better knowledge of Chinese history and character. 



J. Whiteside. 



Soochow University, 
Soochow, China. 



CONTENTS 



Part I 



ANCIENT HISTORY 



A.PTER 
I 
II 
III. 

IV. 

A'. 
VI. 



The Remotest Antiquity . . 
Yao and Shun 
The Hsia Dynasty 
The Shang Dynasty 
The Chou Dynasty 
The Chou Dynasty {Continued) 
VII. The Chou Dynasty {Continued) . 
The Age of Feudalism 
VIII. The Chou Dynasty {Continued). 
The Age of the Seven States 
IX. The Famous Philosophers 
X. Ancient Society, Laws and Customs 
XI. Religion and Cultifre 



"AGE 

1 

6 
10 
15 
20 
26 

31 

37 
43 
48 
53 



Part II 

MEDIAEVAL HISTORY 

XII. The Ch'in Dynasty 

XIII. The Han Dynasty 

XIV. The Eastern Han Dynasty 
XV. The Three Kingdoms 

XVI. The Period of Darkness 

XVII. The Spread of Buddhism . . 
XVIII. The Sui Dynasty 

XIX. T'ai Tsung and His Successor 
XX. The Decline of the T'ang Dynasty 

XXI. Religions, Manners, etc., of the T'angs 
XXII. The Five Dynasties 

XXIII. The Sung Dynasty Proper 

XXIV. The Rise of the Chins and the Southern Sung Dynasty 



58 

69 

82 

96 

107 

116 

125 

132 

142 

154 

168 

174 

185 



CONTENTS 



Part III 

MODERN HISTORY 

Section I. — From the Rise of the Mongols to the Manchu 
Conquest of China 



CHAPTER 



XXV. The Rise of the Mongols 

XXVI. Kublai Khan 

XXVII. The Decline of the Yiian Dynasty 
XXVIII. The Ming Dynasty 
XXIX. The Ming Dynasty {Continued) 
XXX. The Downfall of the Ming Dynasty 



197 
209 
222 
232 

244 
257 



Section II. — The Ch'ing Dynasty 
XXXI. General Introduction 



.. 267 



First Period :— The Era of Development 

XXXII. The Unification of Manchuria "273 

XXXIII. The Struggle between the Manchus and the Mings. . 285 

XXXIV. The Struggle between the Manchus and the Mings 

{Continued) .. .. .. .. .. 295 

XXXV. The Conquest of Corea and Inner Mongolia ; the 

Early Customs of the Manchus . . . . . . 306 

XXXVI. The Conquest of China Proper 317 

XXXVII. The Conquest of China [Continued) 329 

XXXVIII. Further Struggles with the Manchus 339 

XXXIX. Political and Social changes under the Manchu 

Regime . . . . . . . . . . . . 346 



Second Period : — The Era of Greatness 

XL. The San Fan Rebellion 

XLI. Annexation of Formosa • • 

XLII. Russian Encroachments upon Manchuria and the 
Treaty of Nerchinsk 
XLIH. The First War with Dzungaria, or Conquest of 
Mo-pei 



358 

370 

376 

382 



CONTENTS 



CHAl'TKK 



XLIV. The Second War with the Dzungar Mongols ; Con- 
quest of Tibet 391 

XLV. K'ang Hsi : the Man and the Ruler . . . . . . 400 

XXVI. The Reign of Yung Cheng 409 

XLYII. Ch'ien Lung's Wars and Conquests 419 

XLVIII, Ch'ien Lung's Wars and Conquests {Continued) . . 430 

XLIX. Ch'ien Lung's Wars and Conquests (Continued) .. 441 

L. Ch'ien Lung as a Civil Ruler . . • • . . • . 455 



Third Period : — The Era of Decline 

LI. An Age of Insurrection . . . . . • . . . . 466 

LII. Tao Kuang's War with the Mohammedans . . . . 484 

LIII. China's First Foreign War 491 

LIV. The First Stage of the Taiping Rebellion . . . . 506 

LV. The Second Foreign War .. .. 517 

LYI. The Second Stage of the Taiping Rebellion . . . . 530 

LYII. The Period of Restoration . . . . 545 

LYIII. The Second Joint Regency of the Empresses • • . . 555 

LIX. The Franco-Chinese War and Subsequent P^vents . . 566 

LX. The Period of the Chin o- Japanese War 578 

LXI. The Period of Unrestrained Foreign Aggression . . 593 

LXII. The Boxer Uprising . . . . . . . . . . . . 600 

LXI II. The Closing Years of Kuang Hsu's Reign . . . . 614 

LXIY. The Revolution 629 



INDEX TO MAPS 



A Map showing the Gradual Extension of the Chinese E 

Hsia, Yin and Chou Dynasties 

Time of the " Spring and Autumn Annals " 

The Ch'in Dynasty .. .. -..*.. 

The Two Han Dynasties 

The Three Kingdoms 

The Sixteen Kingdoms, before the Battle of the Fei 

The Sixteen Kingdoms, after the Battle of the Fei 

The Six Kingdoms 

The T'ang Dynasty 

The Sung and Chin Dynasties 

The Mongolian Empire 

The Ming Dynasty and Timour's Territories 

The Chinese Empire during the Ch'ing Dynasty 



mpire 



1 

10 

43 

58 

69 

96 

111 

111 

113 

132 

174 

197 

232 

267 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



PART I 
ANCIENT HISTORY 



CHAPTER I 

THE REMOTEST ANTIQUITY 

Origin of the Race. — The inhabitants of China are known 
to the world as Chinese. They speak of themselves as the 
" people of Han, or T'ang." As Han and T'ang are both names 
of dynasties they hardly denote the origin of the race. The term 
" Chinese" is also rather unsatisfactory, for it is the opinion of 
many scholars that China, from which it is derived, comes from 
an attempt to pronounce the character Ts'in (^£), the name of 
the first centralized 
empire in the 
Flowery Kingdom. 
Many theories, bas- 
ed more or less upon 
religious myths, 
have been advanced 
to show whence the 
first inhabitants of 
China came ; but 
their correctness 
must necessarily 
await further 
scientific discoveries. All accounts, however, agree that the 
basin of the Yellow River was the cradle of the Chinese race, and 
that their ancestors were a nomadic people who, some five or six 
thousand years ago, migrated from the north-western part of Asia 
and finally settled in what is now the province of Shensi rfifc H/, 
a rich country very thinly populated. 




The San Huang 
Han Dynasty Bas Relief. ("Chinese Art 



2 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

They soon learned how to till the ground and produce grain. 
As time went on, the settlers formed themselves into tribes ruled 
by chieftains. Wars with the aborigines and among the different 
tribes were frequent. The result was that the original in- 
habitants were driven off in all directions and the most powerful 
chieftain became the acknowledged head. The Miao-tze 
(ffi 1 ?), now found in south-western China, are said to be the 
descendants of the aborigines. As to how long this state of 
affairs had continued to exist, history is silent. What we do 
know of this period is founded largely upon the law of evolution , 
which is common to all races and nations. 

The Age of the Three Divine Rulers. — Of all the legendary 
rulers or chieftains, Fu Hsi (ffc ii) must be given the first rank. 
He resided near K'aifengfu (HflJfrJfr) in the modern province of 
Honan (MlUlf). He taught his subjects how to catch animals 

and fish with nets, hence his name, 
Fu Hsi, the "Conqueror of Animals." 
As he also taught the people how to 
rear domestic animals for food, he was 
also called Po Hsi (&«), "Butcher of 
Animals." To him likewise is attributed 
the adoption of the laws of marriage and 
the use of the lute and lyre. He is also 
said to have been the originator of the 
system of writing which, with the improvements and modifications 
of ages, has been handed down to us in the form of the modern 
Chinese characters. 

Before Fu Hsi, there lived in the pre-historic times a ruler, 
called Sui Jen (ii A), " Producer of Fire." As the name implies, 
he is believed to have been the man who brought down fire from 
heaven for the first time and employed it in the preparation of 
food. Before his time the people lived like wild beasts and ate their 
food raw. What method the "Producer" employed in " bringing 
down fire from heaven" is open to question. Many are of the 
opinion that he rubbed one piece of wood against another until 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 





The Wu Ti. Han Dynasty Bas Relief. (" Chinese Art ") 

combustion took place. This is undoubtedly one of the meanings 
of the character Sui ($), the other being " to bring forth fire 
from the rays of the sun." 

Some 1260 years after Fu Hsi, the throne fell to Shen Nung 
0N»Jft), "God of Agriculture," who 
taught the people the art of agriculture 
and the use of herbs as medicine. He 
was born on the Lieh Mountain (£'Jjli) 
in Hupeh (fflJfc), and brought up near 
the Chiang River (H) in Shensi (fife ®), 
and from these localities he derived both 
a tribal name and surname. SHEN NuNG 

The three foregoing rulers are commonly spoken of by 
Chinese historians as "The Three Divine Rulers,'' or San 
Huang (H Ik). 

Huangti or the Yellow Sovereign. — The successors of 
Shen Nung were all men of inferior ability, and unable to check 
the encroachments of the savage tribes whose subjugation was left 
to Huangti (SSE^). He was a warrior as well as a statesman. 
He has been immortalized by the famous battle of Cho-lu (W $L) , 
a town in the modern province of Chihli (it It). The leader of 
the savage tribes was Chih-yu Vikit) : who, according to tradition, 
possessed supernatural powers and hid his army in a thick mist. 
By the use of a compass, Huangti was, however, enabled to locate 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 




HUANGTI 



his enemy and defeat him. Chih-yu 
was among those killed in the 
battle, which is believed to have 
prepared the way for a permanent 
Chinese settlement in the Middle 
Kingdom. 

After this conquest of the 
aborigines, Huangti was placed on 
the throne. He took his title from 
the colour of the earth, believing 
that he had come into power by its 
virtue. His kingdom embraced all 
the territory south of Hsuan Hua 
(SCfls) and Pao-ting (#J£) in Chihli, east of Su-chou (1W) in 
Kansuh Cfr JR) , and north of the Yangtze River, while in the east 
it extended to the sea. This was the largest empire hitherto 
known in China. 

His rule lasted 100 years, a century of progress and enlight- 
enment. Besides the compass of which mention has been made, 
and which was undoubtedly an invention of his time, he is 
commonly believed 
to have been the 
inventor of boats, 
carts, bows, arrows, 
and bamboo music- 
al instruments. 

In the way of 
progress, we are 
informed that he 
constructed the first 
mint for the coin- 
age of copper 
money; encouraged 
commence ; fixed 
standard weights 




Ts'ang Chi 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 5 

and measures ; introduced a uniform taxation of land ; gave a 
calendar to the people ; devised the new method of reckoning time, 
known as the "Sexagenary Cycles", which has been handed 
down to our day ; and taught his people how to make utensils of 
wood, pottery and metal. Under his able direction, Ts'ang Chi 
(J&"Sh, one of his ministers, invented the six kinds of writing 
which were to supersede the more complicated method of 
recording important transactions by means of knotted cords ; 
and Yung Cheng (#jjjg), another minister of his, constructed 
a Celestial Globe. To further the study of astronomy, an 
observatory was constructed for the many astronomers whose 
business it was to record the movements of heavenly bodies, and 
to foretell any coining events, such as storms, etc. An altar 
was also built where sacrifices to God and lesser divinities 
were offered. Last but not the least, he made a valuable 
contribution to Chinese medical science in several treatises which 
attest the gifted talent of the sovereign. 

His wife is no less famous than Huangti himself. She 
taught the people how to rear silkworms and to weave silk, and 
has been regarded as the goddess of the silk industry. 

Huangti, Chuan Hsu (0*H), his grandson, K'u (51), his 
great-grand son, Yao (§1), and Shun (#), are commonly spoken 
of as the Five Sovereigns (S^fr). 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 




Yao 



CHAPTER II 
YAO AND SHUN 

(B.C. 2356—2208.) 

The Reign of Yao. — Chinese historians generally regard the 
accession of Yao (M) as the dawn of authentic history. The 
records of this period, covering a little over one hundred years, 

however, are not entirely free from what 

may be regarded as vague and uncertain. 

It requires a good deal of critical judgment 

to sift facts from fiction. 

The first official act of Yao was to 
give his people, by the insertion of inter- 
calary months, a more correct calendar 
than that which had previously existed. 
This system has been followed throughout 
all the succeeding ages. It is stated that in the court of Yao 
there grew a certain kind of plant which put forth a leaf each day 
as the moon waxed and shed a leaf each day as it waned. 

The government instituted by this wise sovereign may be 
justly described as a government by the people. Every one had 
access to his court either to offer a suggestion or to make a 
criticism. No important appointment was ever made without 
the advice and consent of the chiefs of the feudal lords; and, 
as a result, his administration was a great success. The 
prosperity of the nation was, however, temporarily disturbed by 
a thirteen years ' flood which began in the sixty-first year of his 
reign. (B.C. 2297.) 

Whether or not this flood had any connection with the 
Deluge recorded in the Bible, it is hard to say ; but it was a 
terrible disaster. From the accounts given in the Book of 
Records, one is apt to think that the calamity, great as it was, 
was of a local character which permitted of human remedy. For 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



a time Yao was greatly grieved by the sufferings of his people. 
No one seemed equal to the situation. With some hesitation the 
great task of reducing the waters was assigned to Kun (g$), who 
failed, and for this failure and other crimes, was put to death by 
Shun, Yao's son-in-law and co-ruler. Strange^as it may seem, 
Yu (31), son of the man who had just failed, was recommended to 
the throne by Shun. It took Yu (?§) eight years to finish the 
work. Instead of building high embankments as his father had 
done, he deepened the beds of existing rivers and cut as many 
channels as were necessary to carry the water off to the sea. By 
his great engineering success, he soon became the idol of the 
nation. "We would have been fish but for Yu" (|R il ^ * M. ¥) , 
is a saying which has come down to us from those days. 

Yao ruled 100 years. 
From the seventy-third 
year of his reign, however, 
Shun was actually the 
head of the government 
and acted as Regent. Yao 
died at the age of 117; 
and, as he was not pleased 
with the conduct of his 
own son, he left the throne 
to Shun. 

The reign of Shun.— 
After the death of Yao, 
Shun refused to take the 
throne which had been left 
for him. He evidently 
wished to give Yao's son 
an opportunity to succeed 
his illustrious father. 
Public opinion, however, 
was so strong in favor of 

Shun that, at the end of the three years of mourning, 
reluctantly assumed the royal title. 




he 



8 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

We have seen that he was the son-in-law of Yao. One 
naturally thinks that a man must be a prince, or high official, 
before he may become the son-in-law of a sovereign. Shun was 
neither. He was but a farmer, and one whose early life was not 
at all happy. According to tradition, his mother died when he 
was young, and his father married again and had more children. 
His stepmother never liked him; and, under her influence, the 
father, who was blind, and his half-brother hated him. Shun 
never complained, and finally his filial piety overcame all 
prejudice. His fame spread far and wide and soon reached 
the ear of Yao, who had begun to feel the burden of the 
government. Shun having been recommended to the sovereign 
by the feudal lords as the man best fitted to be his successor, Yao 
thereupon gave both of his daughters to him in marriage. Thus 
at the age of 30, Shun was obliged to give up a farmer's life to 
share the responsibilities of governing an empire. 

Shun's administrative abilities soon justified the confidence 
placed in him by Yao. He called from private life many capable 
men to take part in the administration of the government, and 
did not hesitate for a moment to punish those who were unworthy 
of trust. Among the former, Yu the Great was perhaps the most 
illustrious. Others were no less able; and to each of them Shun 
assigned an important department. Yu was his Prime Minister ; 
Ch'i (M), Minister of Agriculture; Ch'i (31), Minister of 
Education; and Kao Yu (^R&), Chief Justice. Other important 
offices, including the Ministries of Fire, Rites, Music, etc., were 
also created. 

Shun was the author of the scheme by which all ministers 
directly responsible to the throne were required to give a strict 
account of their administration or department every third year 
(Hffc$tft). He further made the rule that a feudal prince should 
report in person to the royal court every year and the overlord or 
king make a tour of inspection every fifth year. 

His death took place in the modern province of Hunan, 
whither he had gone on a tour of inspection. He had ruled as 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 9 

emperor or king for forty-seven years and was succeeded by Yu 
the Great. 

Yao and Shun are regarded as the ideal rulers in China. 
Much of their unrivalled popularity is undoubtedly due to the 
eulogies of Confucius and Confucian scholars, who have endowed 
them with every virtue known to man. They are worshipped 
not because of the deeds they performed, but because of the 
spotless lives they led. They are models as men and rulers, and 
their days are generally accepted as the Golden Age in Chinese 
history. No greater honour can be paid to a Chinese emperor 
than to compare him to Yao and Shun. 



10 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER III 



THE HSIA DYNASTY 



(B.C. 2205—1766) 

Yu the Great (B.C. 2205— 2197).— Following the example 
of Yao, Shun made Yu co-ruler in the twenty-third year of his 
reign. Yu was, therefore, actually in power when Shun died; 

but being anxious to give 
Shun's son a chance, he made 
an attempt to retire. How- 
ever, his great success in re- 
storing the flooded lands and 
his subsequent services to 
the State, had long eclipsed 
the would-be heir-apparent. 
When the people had to choose 
between a tried statesman and 
one who had no other claim 
to the throne than that based 
upon his birth, their prefer- 
ence was naturally for the 
former. So, after the period 
of mourning, Yu was elected 
to the throne. He removed his capital to An-I (3g fi) , in Shansi 
(III IS), and adopted the name of his former principality, Hsia 
(3£), as the name of the dynasty he now founded. To show his 
gratitude, he made the sons of Yao and Shun feudal lords over 
territories called T'ang and Yu (]§§ and &), respectively. 

Yu, as ruler, desired to maintain the closest relations with 
his people, and caused to be hung at the entrance to his court five 
instruments — a drum, a gong, a stone instrument, a bell, and a 
rattle. The drum was to announce the coming of a caller who 
desired to discourse with him upon any of the virtues which 
should adorn a monarch. By beating the gong, he who dis- 




Yu the Great 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



11 



approved of the king's conduct could be admitted to audience. If 
any one had important news, or personal grievances to communi- 
cate, he had but to strike the stone instrument, or ring the bell, 
as the case might be, in 
order to gain admittance ; 
while the king was always 
ready to hear any appeal 
from the judicial decisions 
of his judges whenever he 
heard the sound of the 
rattle. These instruments 
kept Yu so very busy that, 
as historians inform us, he 
was always late at his mid- i 
day meal. 

The discovery of in- 
toxicating spirits has been traced to Yu's time ; but I-ti (B #0 , 
the discoverer, was dismissed from the public service by the 
sovereign, who said in the presence of his ministers: "The 




Yu The Great and Chieh Kuei 
Han Dynasty Bas Relief. ("Chinese Art")- 




Tomb of Yu the Great 



1*2 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



day is coming when the liquor will cost someone a kingdom. " 
These prophetic words were fulfilled to the letter when the last 
ruler of his house came to the throre. 



om >rc 



As a monu- 
ment to his great- 



i 



ness, Yu. 



in 



the 



Mfrfl 



fourth year of his 
reign, cast nine 
metal tripods(^LJi-), 
and engraved de- 
scriptions of the 
Nine Regions (ji'H\) 
on each of them. 
These emblems of 
royalty, as the 
tripods have been 
regarded , were 
then placed in the 
ancestral temple of 
Yu. 

As Y r u was 
ninety-three years 
old when he came 
to the throne, he 
did not rule long before death put an end to his distinguished 
career in B.C. 2197. He was buried at Hui-ki, in Chekiang 
(8f tL # fg), whither he had gone to meet his nobles. 

The Reign of Ch'i (I?).— The Hsia Dynasty is worthy of 
note for the fact that after Yu the throne ceased to be elective 
and became hereditary. No selfish motive, however, could be 
attributed to Yu. Kao Yu (& p&), to whom he would have gladly 
resigned the throne, had died. As his own son, Ch'i (&) , inherited 
many of his kingly virtues, it was but natural that the people, 
who had so much to say in the matter, should insist, as they did, 
upon Ch'i's inheriting the throne. Ch'i's reign was one of pros- 
perity and peace. 



w 



Tablet written by Yu the Great commemorating the flood. 
Discovered ill Hiang Shan, Hunan 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 13 

T'ai K'ang (B.C. 2188— 2159).— As he was insolent in 
manner and given up to hunting, T'ai K k ang Ofc;!^), the son of 
Ch'i, was not competent to govern. The people soon grew tired 
of him. Taking advantage of this condition of things, I (^), his 
prime minister, placed himself at the head of a revolutionary 
movement during his master's absence on a hunting trip, and 
prevented the king from returning to his capital. T'ai K'ang was 
therefore obliged to live in a neighbouring town, where he soon 
died. As his younger brother, who succeeded him, did not long 
survive, the throne was given to Hsiang (*B), his nephew. (B.C. 
2146—2118.) 

Hsiang. — In an attempt to regain the kingdom which he had 
lost, Hsiang was slain on the battlefield, and his queen, then preg- 
nant, had to flee for her life. She soon gave birth to a son. 
The mother and son lived in obscurity until the latter conquered 
the army of the usurper and returned with her to the capital 
where he was made king. This was Shao K'ang (&M). (B.C. 
2079—2057.) 

Chieh (&) (B.C. 1818-1766).— Passing over some eleven 
kings, of whose deeds very little has been recorded, we come to 
the days of the notorious Chieh, the seventeenth and last king of 
the house of Hsia. Chieh was a man of extraordinary strength, 
but was no statesman. He conquered many tribes who had re- 
fused to submit to his authority ; but his military achievements 
made him haughty, wilful, and cruel, and he became both extrav- 
agant and immoral. He refused to heed the advice of the wise, 
and spent his time among bad women, of whom Mei Hsi (j& I?) 
was the most notorious. 

Mei Hsi. — Mei Hsi was beautiful but wicked. She had been 
given to Chieh as ransom by a noble whom the king had humbled. 
It is commonly believed that she was largely responsible for the 
downfall of the Hsia Dynasty. According to tradition, there was 
a lake full of liquor in the palace of Chieh. At a given signal, 
three thousand persons jumped into this lake and drank like 
cattle, for the drunken conduct of such revelers was the principal 



14 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

amusement of the king and his royal concubine. To please her 
an underground palace was built at an immense cost. Here 
Chieh enjoyed all kinds of vice by day and by night while the 
affairs of state were entirely neglected. 

Extra taxation had to be resorted to, in order to provide 
means to meet the heavy expenditure of Chieh ; but this so 
alienated the hearts of the people that a rebellion was started by 
a virtuous noble named T'ang (il). Little resistance was possible, 
and Chieh, after having led a most wanton royal life for fifty- 
three years, died (B.C. 1764) in exile at Nan-ch'ao (f&M), now 
in the eastern part of Anhui province. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



15 



CHAPTER IV 

THE SHANG DYNASTY 

(B.C. 1766-1122.) 

T'ang, the Founder of the Dynasty. — T'ang (W;), who was 

said to have descended from Ch'i (%) , minister of education under 
Shun, was the founder of the Shang (W Dynasty, named after the 
principality which Ch'i had bestowed on 
him for his services. Po (^) was the 
capital of this new family of rulers. The 
battle of Ming T'iao (nl<!£) , which resulted 
in the overthrow of Chieh, gave T'ang the 
title of " Successful," or Ch'eng T'ang 
(;£?§) . In fact, his revolution was the first 
successful one recorded in Chinese history. 
It is stated that he never felt happy after- 
wards, because he feared that his action in 
taking up arms against Chieh, his sover- 
eign, might be viewed by succeeding ages in the light of a usur- 
pation. One of his ministers tried, by an able address, to con- 
vince him that what he did was in strict 
accord with the will of Heaven, since 
Chieh had sinned against Heaven and 
man. This view is fully shared by Con- 
fucian scholars, who not only exonerate 
T'ang, but rank him with the celebrated 
rulers of antiquity. 

A fearful drought commenced in the 
second year of T'ang 's reign and lasted 
seven years. The suffering among the 
people was beyond description. Money 
was coined and freely distributed among 
the poor, but this hardly relieved the 
situation. Having exhausted all means 

Libation Cup Shang Dynasty. m , 

("Chinese Art") in his power, T ang finally appealed to 





16 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



God by going to a mulberry grove and there offering his prayer. 
He confessed his sins and offered his own life for the benefit of 
the people. " Do not destroy my people," said he, " because of 
my sins ! " The reply to his prayer was a copious rain. T'ang 
was so much delighted with the result of the appeal to Heaven, 
that he composed a new hymn to which he gave the name of 
" Mulberry Grove " (ft ft £, %;. 

We undoubtedly owe the 
--,-. - custom of putting an inscription 

on a utensil to T'ang, whose 
motto on his bath tub is often 
admired for its beauty, and 
memorized by every Chinese 
school boy. 

T'ai Chia (B.C. 1753— 
1720). — T'ang's son having 
died before him, T'ai Chia (* *P), 
his grandson, came to the throne 
after his death. This sovereign 
was weak and was soon led astray 
by bad ministers. Fortunately 
for him and the dynasty, I Yin 
(& T), who had placed the crown 
upon the head of T'ang, was 
close at hand. Several times he 
remonstrated with the young 
ruler by calling attention to the good qualities which distinguished 
T'ang and the causes of the downfall of the Hsia Dynasty. To all 
this, T'ai Chia turned a deaf ear. I Yin, who preferred to commit 
an irregularity rather than see the empire fall to pieces through 
the follies of T'ai Chia, made up his mind to take strong measures. 
T'ai Chia was dethroned and made to live near the tomb of T'ang, 
while I Yin assumed the exercise of royal functions in the capacity 
of regent. This unprecedented action on the part of I Yin had a 
most salutary effect, for the change of environment worked a 




Sacrificial colander, used 
for steaming grain and herbs. Shang 
Dynasty. (" Chinese Art ") 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



17 



complete reformation in T'ai Chia, who returned at the end of 
three years to Po, a thoroughly repentant man and competent 
rnler. To him I Yin gladly restored all royal powers. It was 
this act of I Yin rather than his services in building up an empire 
that has made him immortal. Whether he did right in tempo- 
rarily dethroning the king was open to question, until a final 
verdict was rendered by Mencius who thought that his ends amply 
justified his means. This historical event attests the extent of 
the power exercised by a prime minister in those days. 

Transfer of the 
Capital to Yin. — 

The removal of the 
capital to Yin (%£), 
rendered desirable by 
the frequent overflows 
of the Yellow River, 
took place in the year 
B.C. 1401. The peo- 
ple at first were un- 
willing to make the 
change and it became 
necessary for P'an 

Keng (^ J^), the six- 

1 i • r 1 1 YlN 

teenth king of the 

Shang Dynasty, to explain in writing the reasons for the under- 
taking. His eloquence overcame the opposition. Henceforth 
the dynasty is known as Yin instead of Shang. P'an Keng's 
contributions to Chinese literature have been preserved in the 
Book of Records. In the new capital, he began a new govern- 
ment, and, by imitating the methods of T'ang, was able to restore 
for a brief time the declining fortunes of his house. 

Wu Ting (B.C. 1324-1265) .— Wu Ting, the fourth ruler 
after P'an Keng, is famous for two things, — the way in which he 
obtained the services of an able minister and the expedition he 
led against the Tartars. 




18 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

According to tradition, Wu Ting (^ T) never spoke a word 
during the time of mourning, but permitted Kan P'an ('ft &) , his 
prime minister, to manage the state affairs for him. When the 
mourning was over, Kan P'an resigned on account of age. To 
find a successor to such a brilliant man was no easy task. Wu 
Ting, therefore, appealed to God, and a man was revealed to him 
in a dream. 

He made a picture of the man of his dream and ordered a 
search to be made for him. A mason was at length found who 
answered the description given and who was at once ushered be- 
fore Wu Ting. The king was very much pleased with the words 
of the mason and made him prime minister at once. This man 
was Fu Yiieh (1$ tft) . Modern historians think that Wu Ting 
had known Fu Yiieh well, and that the dream was a mere pretense 
on the part of the king who did not wish to raise a mason to so 
important an office as that of prime minister without some better 
excuse than his own knowledge of the man . Fu Yiieh, however, 
proved to be the right man for the place ; for, under his guidance, 
the country prospered within and was respected without. 

In the year B.C. 1293 there was an expedition sent against 
the Land of the Demon (&;#), commonly believed to be the 
Tartars. This war lasted three years, and resulted in a temporary 
lease of new life to the Yin Dynasty. Nobles again flocked into 
the court of Wu Ting with tribute. Unfortunately Wu Ting's 
successors were not able to check the rising power of a western 
state which reached its zenith in 1122. 

The Reign of Chou (B.C. 1154-1123).— The Yin Dynasty 
ended with a tyrant, the twenty-fourth king. His name was Chou 
(fcfr). He was a talented man, but utterly without principle. In 
character, he very much resembled Chieh, the last ruler of the 
house of Hsia. Like him, Chou was aided to a great extent in the 
practice of vice by a woman. Fer name was Ta Chi (J! E> . When 
he heard of this beauty, he led an army to attack her father, a 
noble of Su (Wk), and comp led him to surrender her as a con- 
cubine to the sovereign. Chou soon became a helpless slave to 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 19 

her wicked will. She evidently took no fancy to an underground 
palace. To satisfy her vanity Chou constructed the " Deer-Tower" 
CAS) i the highest structure known in his day. The work was 
completed in seven years and cost an incredible amount of money. 
Unfortunately, this great architectural work perished with Chou, 
who set fire to it and burned himself to death, when he saw no 
hope for himself. 

Chou, who was even worse than Chieh, permitted Ta Chi to 
interfere with the management of his government, for she was 
" the hen that heralds the dawn of the day" (ft Si SJ &). To seal 
the lips of the timid, she caused all those who ventured to 
remonstrate with the king to be put to death by making them 
climb up a red-hot copper pillar. Even the uncle of the king lost 
his life. 

Desertion and rebellion were the order of the day. Eight 
hundred nobles joined the flag of Chou Fa (ffl %t) , whose own army 
numbered only three thousand men. Chou was not a man who 
would give up his kingdom without a struggle. An immense army 
was raised and the last stand was made at Mu Yieh (#c SF). The 
royal soldiers refused to fight and the result was the death of Chou 
and the end of the Yin Dynasty. 



20 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER V 

THE CHOU DYNASTY 

(B.C. 1122—255.) 

Introduction. — The Chou Dynasty marks the beginning of 
a new epoch in Chinese history. With it the real authentic 
history begins. In it are to be found the origins and principles of 
Chinese civilization. The Chou Dynasty was to the Empire what 
Greece was to Europe ; for most of the customs, laws, and 
institutions which we see to-day have been handed down from 
this period. Its history, embracing a period of 867 years, 
resembles the history of Europe during the seventeenth and 
eighteenth centuries. The rise and development of philosophies 
during this period have also rendered the name of Chou particu- 
larly memorable. For the sake of convenience, this longest 
Chinese dynasty may be divided into three periods ; the first 
embraces the rise of the dynasty and down to the removal of its 
capital to the East ; the second, the age of Feudalism ; and the 
third, the age of the Seven States. 

The Rise of Chou 

Its Early History. — The founder of the Chou Dynasty, 
Wu, the Military King (j&3E), was of distinguished ancestry, 
being a descendant of Ch'i (M), minister of agriculture under 
Shun. One of Ch'i's descendants, Pu-kuh (* B) by name, 
during the reign of T'ai K'ang (B.C. 2188-2159) introduced the 
art of agriculture among the savage tribes in what is now the 
modern provinces of Shensi and Kansuh and built a town at Pin 
(ft). Here his family continued to live in peace for hundreds of 
years. In the year 1326 B.C., Tan-fu 0££), having been 
harassed by the constant incursions of the barbarians, migrated 
eastward to Chi (&), now Chi-san district of Shensi, and gave 
this new settlement the name of Chou. Through the labours of 
a succession of good men who succeeded Tan-fu (&&), this little 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



21 



town in time became the 
centre of civilization. Its 
growth was most rapid. By 
the time of Wen Wang 
(3fc 5E) , father of the founder 
of the dynasty, it was a city 
of far greater importance 
than the capital of the 
empire, for it was the capital 
of " two-thirds of the 
empire." The fruits of 
his benevolent government 
were finally reaped by his 
son, Wu Wang, or " Military 
King." 



m^w^^^^ 







Sacrificial bowl. Chou Dynasty. ("Chinese Art") 



Wu Wang. — Having ascended the throne, made vacant by 
the death of Chou, amid the acclamations of the nobles who had 
allied themselves with him, Wu Wang set himself to organize a 
peaceful government. His first act was to set at liberty the un- 
happy men who had been imprisoned by Chou for no fault of theirs. 
Among them was one named Chi-tze {%=$>), who was Chou's uncle, 
and a man of great learning. He explained the rules of govern- 




King Ch'eng of the Chou Dynasty. 
Han Dynasty Bas Relief. (" Chinese Art ") 

ment & £g) and then escaped to Corea, where he was elected ruler. 
He evidently had no desire of becoming an official under the newly 
established dynasty. By order of the king, Ta Chi (jffi E)> who 
had caused so many innocent men and women to be put death, 
paid the penalty with her life. The immense stores of grain 



22 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



which had been stored by Chou and the treasures he had accumu- 
lated were distributed to the poor. Soldiers were disbanded ; 
horses and oxen given to farmers for agricultural purposes ; schools 
established ; and houses built for the old. A new city was laid 
out at Hao (g§), which was henceforth the capital of the empire. 
Wu Wang died at the age of ninety-three, after having ruled as 
king for seven years. 

Duke cf Chou. — Of the numerous great men who adorned the 
court of Wu Wang, the Duke of Chou, his younger brother, must 
be given the first place. It was he who completed what had been 
left undone by Wu Wang, for the latter's death left a boy of thir- 

teen on the throne, and the re- 
sponsibility of the government 
rested with the Duke who was 
the regent. As a statesman and 
lawyer, he wrote the Classic, 
known as "The Rites of Chou," 
which is a permanent monument 
to his greatness ; as a general, he 
crushed a most stubborn rebellion 
headed by Wu Keng (&$£) , son of 
Chou, and aided by other uncles 
of the boy-king, whom Wu Wang- 
had appointed to most responsible 
positions; and as a philosopher, 
succeeding ages have pronounced 
him to be second only to Con- 
fucius. The name of this man 
is closely associated with the 
early institutions of the Chou Dynasty. 

Divisions of the Empire. — The feudal system was undoubted- 
ly an outcome of the tribal government of the early ages. It ex- 
isted during the Hsia and Shang Dynasties, but the Duke of Chou 
perfected it by the introduction of the five orders of nobility, 
which are dukes, marquises, earls, viscounts and barons. A duke or 




Ancient bronze bell. 
Chou Dynasty. (" Chinese Art") 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 23 

a marquis was entitled to rule over a territory 100 li square; an 
earl, 70 //square; and a viscount or baron, 50 li square. These 
were classified as the first, second, and third class states respective- 
ly. States, whose area was less than 50 li square, had no direct 
representation at the court of the king and were obliged to send 
their tribute through a neighbouring first-class state. There were 
nine regions in the empire each 1,000 //square. With the excep- 
tion of the territory reserved as the domain of the king, each region 
contained 30 first-class, 60 second-class, and 120 third-class 
states, or a total of 210 feudal states. The domain of the king was 
divided among the executive ministers of his court and included 
nine first-class, twenty-one second-class, and sixty-three third- 
class states. At the beginning of the Chou Dynasty, the total 
number of feudal states was 1,773. Subsequent civil wars among 
these states finally reduced tkis number to seven. The establish- 
ment of the first centralized empire by Shih Huangti (#6 %. *&) , of 
Ts'in (|&), brought about the -end of this system (B.C. 221). 
Whatever may be the opinion of succeeding ages concerning this 
system, the Chou Dynasty reaped much. benefit from " the wall of 
feudal states around the House of the King " (£fr2ttt1£HiiI£3E^), 
built by the Duke of Chou. It was the armies of these states that 
saved it from the horrors of a barbarian invasion; and, when its 
power had sunk to the lowest ebb, it was the jealousy among them 
that prolonged its existence. 

Government. — Of the political institutions of the two preced- 
ing dynasties, we know very little. The highest officials under 
the kings of the Chou Dynasty were the Grand Tutor, the Grand 
Instructor, and the Grand Guardian, with an assistant under 
each. Their offices were purely didactic. The administration of 
the government was entrusted to a cabinet consisting of the heads 
of the following six departments : the Heavenly Minister (5S 1?) 
or Minister of the Interior, the Earthly Minister (*fc IT) or Minister 
of the Treasury, the Spring Minister (# f) or Minister of Rites 
and Religion, the Summer Minister ()£ If) or Minister of War, 
the Autumn Minister (ft If) or Minister of Jurisprudence, the 



24 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 




Duke of Chou 



Winter Minister (* *%) or Minister of Works. Each cabinet 
minister had a corps of sixty subordinate officers under him. The 
total number of executive officers, therefore, was 360, correspond- 
ing to the number of heavenly bodies known at that time. 

Outside of the domain of the 
king, feudal chiefs were appointed. 
They were of different grades, and 
the number of states subject to their 
supervisor)- power varied from five, 
for one of the lowest grade, to 210 
for one of the highest grade, or 
Lord of a Region. The Lords of 
Regions were themselves placed 
under the two Grand Dukes Chow 
(M &) and Chao (g £■) , the former 
having jurisdiction over all the states east, and the latter over all 
those west of Shen (fife) , now Shenchow (fife ffl), Honan (JBf j£). 

Taxation. — Soon after the reduction of the waters by Yu, 
a system of taxation was inaugurated, known as the "Tribute 
System " (It &). This system was in operation during the Hsia 
Dynasty. Each able-bodied man received fifty mow of land from 
the government and was to pay to it as tax the produce of five 
mow. The Shang Dynasty substituted for this system what is 
called the " Aid System " (£&&). This system required all land 
that could be cultivated to be divided into lots of 630 mow each, 
which was subdivided into squares of seventy mow each, and allot- 
ted to eight families on the condition that they were to cultivate 
the square in the centre of the lot in common, and give the 
produce to the government as tax. The plan of division is best 
illustrated by the character # (chin), hence its name Chin T'ien 
(#ffl). When enclosed thus §§, we see there are nine squares 
with one in the centre and the rest surrounding it. The system 
adopted by the Chou Dynasty was a combination of the two, the 
"tribute system" for the more crowded cities and the "aid 
system" for the outlying districts. The Chou people were also 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



25 



taxed by labour, the length of time during" which a man had to 
work for the government varying according to the condition of the 
crop of each year. 

Military Equipment. — Under the Chou Dynasty the burden 
of military equipment rested entirely on the farmers. Every 
sixty-four chin (#), or a tien ($/) of 512 families, was required to 
furnish four horses, one chariot, three charioteers, seventy-two 
foot soldiers and twenty-five other men. The king's domain was 




Stone Drums of the Chou Dynasty, Confucian Temple, Peking. 

composed of 64,000 chin, hence its military strength was estimated 
at 10,000 chariots. For this reason, his realm is spoken of as a 
state of 10,000 chariots. The standing army of such a state was 
made up of six army corps, each of 12,500 officers and men; that 
of a first-class feudal state of three ; that of a second-class state of 
two; and that of a third-class state of one. 



26 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER VI 
THE CHOU DYNASTY (Continued) 



Its Decadence 



Reign of Mu 

Wang.— The Chou 
Dynasty is famous 
for several able 
rulers immediately 
after its founder. 
This line was 
broken when Mu 
Wang («3E), the 
fifth king, came to 
the throne (B.C. 
1001—947). He 
was more ambi- 
tious than wise. In 
the height of his 
passion for con- 
quests, he led an 
immense army 
against the Dog 
Barbarians (:fc3fc), 
in the western part 
of the province of 
Shensi. This ex- 
pedition must have 
been a failure, for 
he brought back 
only four white 
wolves and four 
white deer. Un- 
intentionally, he 
thus sowed the 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 27 

seed of hatred which culminated in an invasion of China in B.C. 
771. Before he had time to return to the capital, a rebellion 
broke out in the south (in the northern part of the present Anhui 
province). A forced march was made. Hearing of the approach 
of the royal army, the rebels soon dispersed, and the rebellion 
died a natural death ; but the expenditure incurred by the king 
was already too large. As a consequence, a most infamous 
system was introduced to obtain money. This was a plan provid- 
ing for the remission of punishments by pecuniary payments. 
The practice was not new, but it was now introduced on an 
enlarged scale. 

The Government of the Two Grand Dukes.— Li Wang 
(JK3E), the fifth king after Mu Wang, (B.C. 878— 827) , was a 
depraved man. His misgovernment stirred up discontent 
throughout the empire, and nobles refused to bring presents to 
the court. To make things worse, he tried to muzzle public 
opinion by the appointment of priests as detectives, and by put- 
ting - all who ventured to criticise his government to death. This 
hastened the breaking out of a rebellion; and, in 842 B.C., hi 
Wang (JH 3E) had to flee to Chi (gE) in Shensi. For a time there 
was no king in China, and the government was in the hands of 
the Grand Dukes Chou and Chao (J^ 3 — &•). This period is 
known in Chinese history as Kung-ho (^*n), or the " Joined 
Peace," and was continued till the death of Li Wang. 

The Restoration (B.C. 827— 782).— The death of U Wang 
left his son, Hsiian Wang (!&£), prepared to cope with the 
critical situation which confronted the Chous. He had evidently 
learned a good lesson from the misfortunes that had come upon 
his father. Placing himself under the guidance of experienced 
statesmen, he soon saw the return of better days. The internal 
conditions improved and his arms were successful everywhere. 
Barbarians were driven out of China, and most of the nobles 
returned to their allegiance to the house of Chou. 

Not only did Hsiian Wang have good ministers, but he also 
had a good queen, Chiang-hou (HM), who to-day ranks among 



28 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

the greatest women of antiquity. It is stated that the king was 
less energetic when he saw that his state was in a better condition. 
He began to rise late and was indifferent to the affairs of state. 
No advice from ministers was heeded ; but finally Chiang-hou 
hit upon an expedient which proved successful. One morning 
she deprived herself of all emblems of royalty, and sent word to 
Hsiian Wang that she was no longer worthy to be his queen, 
since she had failed to prevent him from falling into the evils 
which would ultimately bring his government into difficulties. 

Reign of Yu Wang (B.C. 781— 771). -Unfortunately 
Hsiian Wang did not have a good son. He was succeeded by Yu 
Wang (Bl:E), in whose reign of eleven years we see the records 
of Chieh and Chou repeated. Like them, Yu Wang was 
completely under the influence of a beauty. By a well-planned 
coup d^etat (stroke of policy) this woman had the queen de- 
graded and the crown prince disinherited in favour of herself and 
her son. This was the infamous Po-ssu (S M) , whose smile cost 
Yu Wang his crown and his life. Tradition says that she was 
hard to please, and that the king tried every means in his power 
to make her smile, but without success. He at length thought 
of a scheme. He had all the beacons lighted, which, it must be 
remembered, was to be done only as a signal for the nobles to 
come to the defence of their overlord. The loyal nobles respond- 
ed promptly with what forces they were able to collect at short 
notice. To their dismay they discovered that no danger existed 
and that the whole thing was but a false cry of "wolf." Yu 
Wang was indeed successful, for he saw a smile on the face of 
Po-ssu. The mistake he thus made, however, was a fatal one. 
Not long afterwards his empire was invaded by the barbarians 
known as the Dog Jung (:fc ^) . As the country was by no means 
prepared for the attack, the king lighted the beacons again, but 
no one responded. The capital was easily taken and Yu Wang 
slain at the foot of Li Shan (M ill ) . For this invasion Po-ssii 
alone was responsible, these barbarians having invaded China 
at the invitation of the Marquis of Sheii (#), father of the former 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 29 

queen. In the court of this marquis, the disinherited crown 
prince had sought refuge. Instead of surrendering the unhappy 
exile, the marquis allied himself with the Dog Jung to make war 
on Yu Wang. 

Removal of the Capital. — For a time the barbarians were 
permitted to plunder the country, but the allied troops of the 
more powerful nobles finally drove them outside of China. The 
vacant throne was then restored by the allies to the disinherited 
crown prince. The dynastic title of the new king was P'ing 
Wang (^ i), or " The Pacifier ; " but he was not worthy of the 
name. No sooner did he come to the throne than he transferred 
the seat of government to " The Eastern Metropolis," in L,o- 
yang, Honan (& |*§, Mjf), a city built by the famous Duke of 
Chou, and hitherto used as the place for meeting the nobles, be- 
cause of its central location. Henceforth the dynasty was known 
as " The Eastern Chou." With this event, which took place in 
770 B.C., a period of weakness came upon the Chou Dynasty. 
During the remainder of some 500 years, it existed in name only. 
The weaker feudal states were an easy prey for the more powerful 
nobles who only acknowledged allegiance to the king so long 
as it suited them. The China of this period may be described as 
an Empire partitioned amongst the nobles. 

Savage Tribes. — We have seen that the removal of the 
capital to the east was due entirely to a dread of the growing 
power of the savage tribes in the west. These were not the only 
barbarians which existed then. Their kindred in the North and 
in the South also made constant inroads into China. The weak- 
ness of the reigning house was most favourable to their growth. 
As the Chou Dynasty was not able to defend the country, the task 
fell to the lot of the nobles. Fortunately for China and the 
Chinese, the Mongolian Tartars were not strong enough then to 
harass the northern border, or they would have made short work 
of a weakened China. 

Aborigines. — The rulers of the Chou Dynasty never troubled 
themselves much about the aborigines. As long as they 



30 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

remained quiet, they were always permitted to retain their customs 
and land in the heart of the empire. They were scattered here 
and there among feudal states. For several centuries, they re- 
mained uninfluenced by Chinese civilization. They were most 
numerous in Shensi, Shansi and Chihli. In view of their love of 
war, they became very valuable tools of the feudal states; but, as 
the latter grew stronger, they were either conquered or disap- 
peared through assimilation. Those in the Hu-kuang provinces 
formed themselves into a nation known as Ch'u (3!), which, 
during the decadence of the Chou Dynasty, was a standing menace 
to the peace of the Chinese Empire as it then existed. More 
space will be devoted to the growth and power of this state in the 
proper place. 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 31 

CHAPTER VII 

THE CHOW DYNASTY (Continued) 

The Age of Feudalism 

Introduction.— The Feudalism of China furnishes a most 
important study. The best record of this period has been preserv- 
ed in the Spring and Autumn Classic (##c), dating from B.C. 
722 to 481, a work said to have beed edited by Confucius. It is 
largely a record of civil wars among the feudal states, which the 
king was powerless to prevent. Annexations of weaker states by 
stronger ones were of frequent occurrence. Of 1,773 states created 
by the founder of this Chou Dynasty, only one hundred and sixty 
were left; and of this number only twelve were of importance. 
The rest merely rallied under the flags of their leaders until they 
were swallowed up. 

Interstate Relations. — In times of peace an exchange of en- 
voys was not uncommon, though none was ever appointed to 
reside at the capital of a friendly state. Free transit through a 
third state and personal immunity were among the privileges en- 
joyed by a diplomatic agent. An insult to such an agent was 
sometimes a sufficient cause for declaring war. A lame envoy 
was once subjected to ridicule at the court of the state to which he 
was sent. In the war that ensued the offending state was beaten 
and the envoy, who was now the commander-in-chief of the in- 
vading army, demanded, as a condition of peace, the surrender of 
the mother of the defeated prince as hostage, since she was 
thought to have been among the women who laughed at him on 
his former peaceful mission. A peace concluded under the walls 
of the capital of a defeated state was considered an unusual 
humiliation, while a sheep, presented by a defeated ruler in 
person and half naked, was a sign of submission. The desire for 
leadership and preeminence (H H) was the cause of many a bloody 
war between rival states. Ch'u (^), as we have already seen, 



32 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

was always looking for opportunities of conquest. To defeat 
Ch'u, therefore, was the stepping-stone to supremacy. In times 
of need a state was obliged to go to the rescue of a friendly 
neighbor that looked to it for leadership. 

The Five Supreme Powers. — It seems there were five 
states more powerful than the rest. As to which they were 
historians never agree. The following states are certainly worthy 
of mention. 

Chi (5§). — The State of Chi (5§), embracing the larger part 
of the present province of Shantung with its capital at I/ln-Tsu 
(£&?&), now in Ching-chow-fu (WjJ'Hifr), came into prominence 
through the efforts of Duke Huan (1I&). Before his time, Chi 
was the scene of internal disorder and murder. In consequence 
of a disputed succession Duke Huan put his half-brother to death. 
A devoted friend of the latter was Kwan Chung (^ #), who shot 
an arrow at Duke Huan, but it was arrested by the hook of the 
Duke's girdle. Duke Huan, however, was more than ready, 
when he came to the throne, to forgive this would-be assassin. 
He make Kwan Chung his prime minister. The finances of Chi 
were then in a very bad condition and the army was far from 
efficient. Kwan Chung soon proved his worth. He established 
a salt monopoly; encouraged commerce; opened iron mines; and 
reorganized the existing army. In a few years the internal con- 
ditions improved and Chi was looked to by neighbouring states as 
their leader in time of peace and their protector in time of war. 
Duke Huan was now in a position to enter upon a war of conquest. 
What he needed was a pretext that would receive universal 
approval. He did not wait long for such a pretext. The king was 
too weak to enforce his authority and was more than glad to be- 
friend any one of his vassals who could do it for him. Duke 
Huan was the man. His army was soon seen in what is now the 
province of Chihli punishing the northern tribes for their disre- 
spect to the reigning house of China. Nobles who refused to 
acknowledge his supremacy shared the same fate. He reached 
the climax of his glory when he succeeded in bringing the state of 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 33 

Ch'u (2£) over to his side. He led an expedition consisting of his 
own army and the picked armies of his allies against Ch'u, for 
the alleged reason that the latter state had failed to present to the 
royal court a certain kind of plant, which grew in that territory 
(& ^ Z ^ $:•). Ch'u preferred to agree to a condition so easy to 
fulfil rather than go to war, and so a treaty of peace was signed at 
Chao-ling (3 J^). 

With the death of Kwan Chung the days of conquests and 
supremacy seemed to have ended in Chi. Two years later, Duke 
Huan himself died, leaving a numerous progeny. The latter 
quarrelled over the throne, and through their follies, the leader- 
ship among the states was forever lost to Chi. The success of 
Duke Huan had its effect upon the neighbouring states. Among 
the nobles who tried to follow his footsteps, was Duke Hsiang 
of Sung (5lcg^), who made a pretty good start, but received a 
crushing defeat at the hands of Ch'u. 

Chin (H). — This feudal state occupied the western part of 
Shansi. The defeat of Duke Hsiang of Sung gave Ch'u a free hand 
in the political affairs of China. She " absorbed all the Hsis* 
along Han Yang " (g| ^ It J®, ^ K H 2.) , and her sway extended 
over the whole of Shantung and part of Honan. She was a terror 
in the domain of the king of the Chou until Chin arose. Duke 
Wen of Chin (W3t<&) passed his early days in exile, travelling 
from state to state. When he was in Ch'u, a feast was given in 
his honour by the Baron of Ch'u. " If you ever become the ruler 
of your own state, what will you do in return for the favours I 
have shown you ? " asked the Baron. Chun-6rh (jg ^), afterwards 
Duke of Chin, replied that he really did not know what he could 
do in that case. "Of slaves, mistresses, precious stones, and 
silks," he added, " your honour has had more than enough ; and 
feathers, leather, and ivory are the produce of your soil; but 
should it ever become my good luck to meet your honour in the 
battlefield at the head of an opposing army, I shall order a retreat 



* Hsi was the surname of Chou. Feudal states bearing this name were 
spoken of as the Hsis in the Spring and Autumn Classic. 



34 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of thirty //, in consideration of what you have done for me. And 
should you insist on further advance, I will certainly make a 
stand." These remarks of this ambitious young man offended 
many of the ministers of the baron, who advised him to kill 
Chun-erh; but their advice was rejected as cowardly. The baron 
evidently little thought that Chun-erh would ever be able to 
realize his ambition. But Duke Wen of Chin fulfilled his promise 
to the letter when he met the army of Ch'u at Cheng-p'u (&EJH), 
632 B.C. He crippled the military strength of Ch'u for nearly 
half a century. The battle of Cheng-p'u is especially memorable 
because one of the generals of Chin had the chariot horses cover- 
ed with tigers' skins. Duke Wen, being a member of the reign- 
ing family of Chou, stood in the closest relationship to the court 
at the " Eastern Metropolis." After his success at Ch6ng-p'u he 
was received in audience by the king, who loaded the royal 
" uncle"* (&$£) with honours and presents. The prestige of 
Chin was maintained by successors to Duke Wen for nearly two 
hundred years. 

Wu and Yiieh (^$S). — The next state, which was able to 
weaken the strength of Ch'u, was a new rising power in the south 
called Wu, occupying what is now the province of Kiangsu. In 
the latter part of the sixth century B.C., a certain fugitive 
from justice made his way from Ch'u to Wu, where he was 
the first to teach the people how to use a bow and arrow. 
He reorganized the army of Wu. What was left undone by 
him was completed by another military genius who had fled 
in a similar manner from Ch'u some seventy years later. This was 
the famous Wu Tze-hsu (ffi =£ W), whose father and elder brother 
had been wrongfully put to death by P'ing Wang of Ch'u (^PaE). 
His life was also in danger and so he fled to Wu. His marvel- 
lous escape has often been acted on the Chinese stage, and his 
story is perhaps familiar to every Chinese schoolboy. He was 
just the man Wu needed. In 506 B.C., he entered the capital of 



* Duke Wen was thus addressed by the King. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 35 

Ch'u at the head of a triumphant army, and had the remains of 
P'ing Wang dug out and given 300 blows. 

Wu Tze-hsu certainly did much for his newly adopted state, 
which was now the leader in China. Her army overran the state 
of Yueh (&), in the present Chekiang Province, and made it a 
vassal. Kou Chien (£j&£), King of Yueh, knew well that he 
could rule only at the pleasure of Fu-cha (^ H) , King of Wu. 
Outwardly he did everything to please Fu-cha, but at the same 
time went on with the reorganization of his own state. He made 
Fu-cha a present of Hsi-tze (M : f , ) ) the famous beauty of the time. 
This had a most astonishing effect. The girl, who " was washing 
silk by the side of a brook in the morning and concubine of the king 
of Wu in the evening " (38 M & *£ ic W> ft $k 3E M) , soon became the 
favourite of Fu-cha. The King of Wu paid no further attention to 
what was going on in Yueh. The year 472 B.C. saw the down- 
fall of his state and his own death by suicide. Wu was added to 
the territory of Yueh, but the latter was finally conquered by 
Ch'u (38). 

Treaty-Making. — " Treaties were always very solemn 
functions, invariably accompanied by the sacrifice of a victim. A 
part of the victim, or of its blood, was thrown into a ditch in order 
that the spirit of the earth may bear witness to the deed ; the rest 
of the blood was rubbed upon the lips of the parties concerned, and 
also scattered upon the documents by way of imprecation; some- 
times, however, the imprecations instead of being uttered, were 
specially written at the end of the treaty. Just as we say ' the ink 
was scarcely dry before, etc., etc., ' the ancients used to say ' the 
blood of the victim was scarcely dry before, etc., etc.' "* 

The most famous treaty ever recorded was that of 546 B.C., 
concluded by the leading states of Chin, Ch'u, Chi and Tsin at the 
Court of Sung (5fc), a feudal state of second rank in what is now 
the province of Honan. This was a sort of " Hague Conference " 
providing for a cessation of armaments. 



(Parker's "Ancient China Simplified.") 



36 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Warfare. — The armies of the various feudal princes consisted 
principally of charioteers and foot soldiers. We have seen that the 
strength and wealth of a state were measured by the number of war 
chariots it was able to place in the field. These were made of 
leather or wood; and their use, it would seem, dates as far back as 
1797 B.C. When in camp these chariots were often arranged in 
opposite rows with the ends of their shafts meeting above, so as to 
form a " shaft gate," over which a flag was kept flying. No men- 
tion is made of cavalry during the true feudal time. In fact this 
arm of military service was only introduced into China by Semi- 
Tartar states about the year 307 B.C., after which no more war 
chariots were used. 

Besides the war chariots, 
more comfortable conveyances 
drawn by horses or oxen were 
also in use. An eight-horse 
carriage or cart was the style 
used by a king. Confucius, in 
his famous travels, employed 
a two-horse carriage which was 
always driven by one of his 
disciples. 

The offensive weapons of the warriors consisted of knives (7J), 
swords (M), halberds (^), spears (^c), pole-axes (&£), and lances 
with crescent-shaped blades on the side ($5) . These were all made 
of copper. Bows and arrows, much the same as those of to-day, 
were also used. The defensive weapons were shields, cuirasses 
made of skins of rhinoceroses (jffp), and helmets made of 
skins or copper. The soldiers marched to the sound of a 
drum and retreated at the sound of a gong. Before setting out 
on an expedition, it was customary to rub the regimental 
drum with the blood of a victim, and to show the number of en- 
emies slain, their left ears, instead of their heads, were often cut 
off by the victors. 




Chariot 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 37 

CHAPTER VIII 

THE CHOU DYNASTY {Continued) 

The Age of the Seven States 

End of Feudal Leadership. — In the preceding chapter we 
have seen how the Chou Dynasty, during the sixth and seventh 
centuries B.C., was able to maintain its shadow of power over the 
feudal states. The king always strove to cultivate the good will 
of the strongest state, because its military strength maintained 
his authority; the latter was no less happy to be under the 
protection of the royal sceptre, because his name gave it moral 
support. While this condition of affairs existed, both the king 
and the leading states reaped immense benefit therefrom. But it 
could not exist always. The Chou Dynasty was now on the 
decline. The royal name had lost all its value ; the royal domain 
had been greatly reduced by occasional grants of land for services 
rendered by the stronger states. Friendship with Chou was 
without profit and so it was no longer sought. 

Civil Warfare within each State.— Furthermore, the 
national life had assumed a new phase. It must be borne in 
mind that, under the feudal system, the land granted by the king 
carried sovereignty with it. Each feudal lord was sovereign over 
his own domain which was subdivided into estates among his 
ministers. These ministers were executive officials in time of 
peace and commanders in time of war. The standing army of a 
noble was under his immediate control. The growth of estate- 
holders, as was inevitable, always corresponded to that of the 
state itself. So the strongest states had the most difficult internal 
problems to face. According to the saying at the time, " the tail 
often became so large that it could not be wagged at will.' ' 

As the predominant states exercised the power of the king, 
so the estate-holders exercised the power of a feudal lord. Civil 
warfare on a small scale characterized the internal condition of 



38 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

each state. Powerful estate-holders could depose their master 
whenever they pleased. This condition was especially true in 
Chin (ff), the most powerful of the feudal states. It had grown 
so large that its duke was no longer able to maintain order. The 
three rival estate-holders in this state at length came to some 
kind of agreement, and the partition of Chin took place. To the 
three new states, the founders gave their respective surnames of 
Wei (§t) (since B.C. 340, also called Liang (&), Chao (jg) and 
Han (ft). In 403 B.C. they were admitted into the family of 
feudal states by a decree of King Wei Lieh ($ 381 3E) of Chou, 
which was obtained for the mere asking. This partition was 
fatal to the existence of Chou. Had the state of Chin remained 
intact, Ts'in (^§) would never have come into prominence. As 
it was, division caused weakness, and no one single state was 
strong enough to check the eastward advance and aggrandizement 
of Ts'in. 

The state of Ch'i (*) shared the fate of Chin in 389 B.C. 
T'ien Ho (K^fl),who had two years before confined the Duke 
K'ang ($ &) on an island in the sea, now obtained royal 
recognition as Duke of Ch'i. This new state was also called T'ien 
Ch'i (ffl fi) to distinguish it from its predecessor, Ch'i. 

The four newly founded states and three of the older states, 
each representing the amalgamation of a number of smaller ones, 
made up the Seven States, and this period of Chinese history is 
known as the Age of the Seven States. The three older states 
were Ts'in (tH) in the West, Ch'u (36) in the South and Yen iffi) 
in the North. 

Ts'in. — Ts'in (^) was first known in Chinese history as a 
fourth-class state. Out of gratitude to its chief for military aid in 
connexion with the transfer of the capital, P'ing Wang of Chou 
gave him permission to annex all territory west of Ch'i (&), the 
earliest home of the dynasty. This easily raised Ts'in to a first- 
class state, so far as the area was concerned, and brought it to the 
border of Chin (W). Chin was then the leader in the empire, and 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 39 

as its way to the east was blocked, its rulers were obliged to seek 
expansion in the west. Intermarriages between the ruling" houses 
of these two states were frequent, but their wars were not few. 
The decline of the military prowess of Chin gave Ts'in access to 
the great empire in the east. Once this door was opened there 
was nothing to arrest the tide of expansion which, checked in the 
west, had now begun to flow 7 in the opposite direction. 

Duke Shiao (# &•) was a wonderful man. By introducing 
administrative reforms, he succeeded in building the foundation 
of the first centralized empire in China. The immediate cause of 
the greatness of Ts'in lay in the following facts: — 

1. The state was in a better financial condition. The 
incessant civil warfare for a period of upwards of 200 years had 
exhausted the treasuries of most of the feudal states. Owing to 
her geographical position, Ts'in had been obliged to remain 
outside the contest for supremacy. Her people alone could boast 
of an uninterrupted peace of two centuries and a half. 

2. She embraced the modern province of Shensi. "The 
girdles of streams and barriers of mountains" (^MPl ll]) formed a 
natural stronghold which required but small garrisons to become 
well-nigh impregnable. From this stronghold, her generals could 
pour immense armies upon the plains on either side of the Yellow 
River. Furthermore, constant collisions with the western 
barbarians had given her better soldiers who could carry every- 
thing before them. 

3. Her rulers had been able to employ the best genius of the 
time for the benefit of their country and people. Among the 
decrees issued by Duke Shiao, one is specially worthy of note. 
He not only granted official honours and lands to his own subjects, 
but also invited able men from other states to come to the help 
of his government. In response to this call, many foreigners 
flocked to his court. It was these "alien ministers " (££ M) that 
helped build up a wealthy and powerful nation. 



40 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

4. Her rulers had very little regard for the traditions of 
ages, but insisted on reforms as the needs arose. Among the new 
laws enforced by Duke Shiao were the following : " Every family 
having two or more male members shall be liable to double 
taxation, and any one that is able to accumulate rice or silk by 
hard labour shall be exempt from the performance of manual 
labour ; but he who becomes poor through indolence, shall be 
declared a slave." No official positions were hereditary, nor 
were they confined to any favoured class. Military service was 
the only way to fame and prominence, and without a brilliant 
military record even members of the ruling house were debarred 
from holding offices under the chief of the state. 

Yen. — Yen was the territory given to Duke Chao (S <&•) by 
Wu Wang of Chou. Its earlier history is not known. It was 
north of Ch'i (5^). During the period of strife between the 
leading states she took no part whatever in national affairs, and 
it was said of her in 539 B.C.: "She was never a strong power in 
spite of her numerous horses." The year 284 B.C. is a memor- 
able one in her history, because one of her generals invaded Ch'i 
and captured more than sixty cities. Her success, however, was 
only temporary. This able General, Yueh-i (US f£) by name, was 
falsely accused of treason and was superseded by a man of 
inferior ability. As a consequence, she was deprived of all the 
fruits of her former victory. She owed her integrity not to her 
own standing army, but to her secluded position. The three 
states of Chin stood between her and the powerful Ts'in. The 
northern Tartars were not strong enough to harass her. In fact, 
she had obtained a large tract of land from them. 

Sizes of the Seven States.— Of the Seven States, or 
"Masculine Powers" (-fc#§), as they were then called, Ch'u (38) 
and Ts'in (^) each possessed a third of the empire, while the 
remaining third was divided among the other five states. Ch'u 
was now master not only of the Hu-kuang, Kiangsu and parts of 
Chekiang and Kiangsi provinces, as we now know them, but also 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 41 

of most of the unknown territory down to the south sea. Ts'in 
was owner of Szechuen and had extended her power down to the 
southwest towards Yunnan and Tibet, and also far away to the 
northwest in Tartarland, as far as the Great Wail at present 
extends. Yen was far away to the north, while Chi was in the 
extreme east. Of the "Three Chin," Chao was the northern- 
most and largest, and Han the southernmost and smallest. These 
three were open to attacks on all sides. The only remains of the 
old federal China were a few petty states scattered between the 
rivers Ssu (iffl) and Huai (S). They were too small to amount 
to anything, and were all waiting with folded hands to be swallowed 
by this or that great conqueror. The domain of the king of Chou 
had been reduced to seven cities, now all embraced within the 
Prefecture of Honan in Honan Province. 

"Perpendicular" and " Horizontal" Alliances —Ts'in 

had begun to cast covetous eyes on the immense territory that 
separated her from the Yellow Sea. To check her growing 
power, it was necessary for the remaining six states to form a 
chain of north and south alliances. The party that advocated this 
policy found in Soo Ts'in (M ^) an able leader. They styled 
themselves "Perpendicular Unionists. " Soo Ts'in (M^) travelled 
from one state to another until he was made Prime Minister of all 
the Six States and formed an alliance against Ts'in. At the same 
time there existed another party who worked in the interest of 
Ts'in and who, by their eloquence, persuaded the other states to 
make peace with Ts'in. They wanted to form a line of east 
and west alliances, hence they called themselves " Horizontal 
Unionists." This party was headed by Chang I (3£H) , a class- 
mate of Soo Ts'in. In other words, Soo Ts'in and his school 
may be called the War party ; while Chang I and his followers, the 
Peace party. These men flocked to the court of every state. 
When the war party came into power, the armies of the six states 
were fighting their common foe in the west; but when the peace 
party directed affairs, their envoys were seen at Hsien Yang 
(& fi&), the capital of Ts'in, bearing tribute. Ts'in really cared 



42 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

very little for these talkers ; their generals did more practical work 
for her. By bribery, murder, and intrigues of all sorts, she was 
able to utilize one or more of the six states as a cat's paw to pull 
chestnuts out of the fire. In this manner, she exhausted the 
strength and treasure of her rivals, and gave herself a little rest 
whilst gathering more strength for the supreme effort. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 43 

CHAPTER IX 
THE FAMOUS PHILOSOPHERS 

Introduction. — The most important event, which has 
rendered the Chon Dynasty especially conspicuous in Chinese 
history, is undoubtedly the birth of Confucius, the greatest of 
Chinese philosophers. A philosopher may be described as a man 
who tries by his teaching to lay down general laws or principles. 
As a rule, philosophy in the earlier times had a background of 
mystery, and Coufucianism is no exception. As Confucius was a 
disciple of Laotze (3& r£), the founder of Taoism, some knowledge 
of the latter system, coupled with that of the religious beliefs and 
moral standard of the contemporary Chinese teachers, is necessary 
to a proper understanding of Confucianism. 

11 In the early days three groups of divinities were recogniz- 
ed — those of the heavens, the earth, and of man. Besides these, 
ancestral worship was largely practiced. Various kinds of 
sacrifices were offered according to strictly enforced rituals at 
appointed times. Oracles were consulted before even the smallest 
undertakings." (Faber's "China in the Light of History.") 
The belief in astrology, fortune-telling, and dreams was almost 
universal ; but by the time of the Spring and Autumn Classic 
considerable intellectual improvements had been made. " The 
nation that listeneth to man is bound to rise; that which listeneth 
to gods is doomed to ruin ' ' (m JMF m M ft &, » t: 1% ft **) . " The 
will of heaven is far off, but that of man near; how can one claim 
knowledge of that which is beyond one's reach ? " (^ si at, A *I 
M, 1£&i RtiL, f»F &LM £). These quotations suffice to show the 
intellectual tendency of the time. The thought thus expressed 
was later greatly magnified by Laotze in his famous Tao Te 
Ching (gfeffi). 

Taoism. — " Tao probably means impersonal Nature which 
permeates all things, and from which all things are evolved. 
According to the teaching of Laotze, true peace comes from 



44 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



ceasing to strive and by living in harmony with the leadings of 
' Tao.' The cause of disorder in the world is the development of 
what is artificial and unnatural, and the only remedy is a retnrn to 
1 Tao \ " (Pott's "A Sketch of Chinese History") . His philosophy 
has been thoroughly understood by few, as it is beyond the com- 
prehension of the average Chinese. Tradition makes Laotze a 
librarian of the royal court of Chou. After the completion of his 
philosophical work, he retired to an unknown place leaving the 
all-important reform movement to be perfected by Confucius. 

Confucius. — C o n - 

fucius was born 551 B.C. 
in the feudal state of Lu, 
now a part of Shantung 
Province. At fifteen his 
mind was set on learn- 
ing ; and at thirty, he 
stood firm in his convic- 
tions. In his twenty- 
second year, he began 
his career as a teacher. 
In 501, Duke Ting (£&) 
of Lu made him minister 
of justice and acting 
prime minister. In the 
latter capacity he accom- 
panied Duke Ting (S £) 
to Chia Ku (jfe £), where 
an interview had been 
arranged with the Chief 
of Ch'i (*). He advo- 
cated the policy that the 
only way to maintain 
peace is to be prepared for war, and at hisjf request the Duke's re- 
tinue included two generals. The return of certain tracts of land 
which had been occupied by Ch'i, crowned his diplomatic effort. 







Confucius 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



45 



Ch'i became jealous of Lu's prosperity, and corrupted the 
Duke by a present of beautiful courtesans. Confucius then left Lu 
to seek employment at the courts of other nobles. He 'travelled 
from state to state but to no avail. At times his life was in danger. 
Seeing no further 
hope for himself, 
he returned to I^u 
and spent his last 
days in literary 
work. He died 
in 479 B.C. Since 
his death the 
w r orld has come to 
understand his 
true worth. 

Age of Dark- 
ness. — It must be 
borne in mind 
that the states 
through which 
Confucius travel- 
led were shrouded in ignorance. The moral standard of the people 
was low. Between the states there were intrigues of all kinds. 
Polygamy among the nobles gave rise to endless trouble. Monarchs 
often lost their lives at the hands of their own children, and 
murder was frequently resorted to by an ambitious prince to put 
his brothers or half-brothers out of the way. A famous cook, in 
order to obtain favour with his sovereign, killed his own son and 
prepared his flesh as food. It was not uncommon for the ruler of 
a stronger state to wage war against a weaker one for the purpose 
of capturing a beautiful queen. If any reform was needed in a 
world of disorder and crimes of this kin^, it certainly was in the 
matter of morality. 

Confucianism.— Confucius never sought to explain anything 
new, but to reinstate the old in a pure form. "He sought to 




Tablet written by Confucius 



46 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

guide his fellowmen by holding up to them the wisdom and virtue 
of the ancients. His teaching was purely ethical and practical, 
confined to the daily life of man as a member of the state and of 
his family. He spoke little of God and he avoided talking about 
the supernatural. For this reason it is often said that he cannot 
be called a religious teacher, but only a moral philosopher, and 
that Confucianism is rather a system of morality than religion." 

Influence of Confucianism. — " Among the virtues demand- 
ed by the Confucian ethics, propriety, reverence for tradition and 
filial piety are the most important." The last especially is the 
foundation upon which have stood the social life and security 
of the Chinese government. Filial piety not only means dutiful be- 
haviour of children towards parents, but it also includes loyalty to 
the government and respect for authority. Again, " lack of bravery 
in battle is no true nlialty " (?§£ m U M & # •&). " These precepts 
have moulded Chinese society for more than two thousand years. 
No other reformer has held such absolute sway over a great part 
of humanity for such a long period." Unfortunately Confucianism 
has been corrupted to a great extent by the commentaries and 
interpretations of Chu Hsi (3c M) and his school. These com- 
mentaries and interpretations are black clouds in a beautiful 
summer sky. 

Mencius. — " Mencius was also born in the feudal state of Lu 
(372 B.C. ) . While Confucius did not claim to be an originator but 

only a transmitter, Mencius was an inde- 
pendent and original thinker. He expound- 
ed the teachings of his great Master, and 
also added his own reflections on the nature 
of man. He held an extremely optimistic 
view as to the original goodness of human 
nature, and believed that it was possible for 
man by his own efforts to reach the state of 

MENCU'S c tt • i-ii ^- • 

perfection. He is regarded by the Chinese as 
being second only to Confucius." (Pott's " A Sketch of Chinese 
History"). 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 47 

Sin-tze. — Sin-tze (# =¥•) was also a follower of Confucius, but 
held a view entirely different from that of Mencius as regards the 
nature of man. According to him, human nature is bad, and it is 
only by living in accordance with the requirements of righteousness 
and politeness that man can become good. 

Mo-tze (H ^). — This teacher was a native of the feudal state 
of Sung (5fc) ; but the dates of his birth and death are not known. 
He is said to have been one of the disciples of the Great Sage. 
While this lacks confirmation, it is safe to say that he lived about 
the time of Confucius. His teaching is entirely antagonistic to 
Confucianism. The main point of contention was on the Funeral 
Rites. Confucianism is silent respecting the immortality of the 
soul, and considers death as the end of man, and funeral rites the 
last honour one can do to his parents or sovereign. But according 
to Mo-tze there is something immortal after death, and funeral 
rites are a waste of money. Perhaps he was right. He, however, 
mentioned no recompense for the good, or punishment for the bad. 
In other respects his system is a close approximation at Chris- 
tianity. He taught self-sacrifice for the good of mankind and 
sanctioned the " destruction of one's self from head to foot for the 
benefit of the world." His system gained many adherents at one 
time, but received a fatal blow at the hands of Mencius. His 
philosophical writings have been preserved to the present day. 



48 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER X 

ANCIENT SOCIETY, LAWS AND CUSTOMS 

Divisions or Castes. — We have seen that the Chinese is prob- 
ably a transplanted people and that our forefathers in times im- 
memorial came from Northwestern Asia and settled in the Yellow 
River basin. The original inhabitants were gradually conquered. 
Before they were admitted into full citizenship, or the " Hundred 
Families " ("S" j&), they were commonly denoted by the term Min 
(IS), meaning the " dark people."* The subject race was governed 
by a system known as " Hsing " (ftij), a Penal Code, based 
more or less upon their existing customs, while the settlers were 
governed by Li (fit) , or ceremony. Li (jf§) teaches a man what 
he is expected to do; Hsing (ft»J) what he is not expected to do. 
In other words, Li Get) is purely instructive, while Hsing OfiJ) is 
prohibitive. According to Confucianism, the ideal government is 
one which is instructive in character, since by educating the 
people, there should be no need of punishing them. From him 
we learn that the five modes of punishment, viz., branding, cutting 
off the nose, cutting off the feet, castration, and death, were in 
vogue even in the time of Shun (^) . 

Four classes of people were recognized in the days of the Chou 
rulers, viz., scholars, husbandmen, mechanics and merchants. A 
son necessarily followed the calling of his father. Only the 
scholars were eligible to government offices which were more or 
less hereditary. Thus the office holders and the educated formed 
the noble class and the rest were commoners. The saying of the 
time was " no penal code was ever above a noble while no ritual 
was below a commoner " (ffl % _t ^c ^c jfil ^ T M A) . It appears 
from the Spring and Autumn Classic that the only punishments 
which were received by nobles of those days, according to the 
nature of their crimes, were death (££), imprisonment (ft), and 
banishment (tk) . 



These two Chinese terms are now used interchangeably. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



49 



Eunuchs and their Origin. — The Chou Dynasty is common- 
ly credited with having' introduced the custom of keeping" eunuchs. 
The fact is. eunuchs had existed for centuries before the family be- 
came supreme in China. ' ' This class of men seems to have originat- 
ed with the law's severity rather than from the callous desire 
on the part of any reigning house to secure a craven and helpless 
medium and means for pandering" to, and enjoying" the pleasures of 
the harem without fear of sexual intrigue. Criminals whose feet 
were cut off were usually employed as park-keepers, simply because 
there could be no inclination on their part to gad about and chase 
the game. Those who lost their noses were employed as isolated 
frontier pickets where no boys could jeer at them, and where they 
could better survive their misfortune in quiet resignation. Those 
branded in the face were made gate-keepers, so that their livelihood 
was prepetually marked out for them. It is sufficiently obvious 
why the castrated were specially charged with the duty of serving 
females in a menial capacity. Eunuchs were so employed because 
they were already eunuchs 
by law. ' ' * Since the 
abolition of the law, 197 
B.C., however, men have 
been purposely made 
eunuchs in order that 
their services as meni- 
als could be conveniently 
rendered . 

Publication of 
Written Laws.— W h i 1 e 
various forms of punish- 
ment had been provided 
for, there had been no 
written laws published for the 
The " Son of Heaven 




T/.i-: Ch'an 

information of 



the public. 



was the law 



and executive 



* (Parker's "Ancient China Simplified. ") 



50 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

and this sacred authority he could bestow on any one of his 
ministers. 

The first publication of laws was made in the year 536 B.C. 
in the feudal state of Cheng (g£fc) , in what is now the province 
of Honan. Tze Ch'an (=£ jg), who thought it advisable to cast the 
laws in metal for the information of his people, was a good friend 
of Confucius ; but the latter never approved of this ' ' unstates- 
manlike " action of his friend whom he otherwise admired. 

In the latter part of the Chou Dynasty there had grown up a 
party who advocated the enforcement of severe laws as the only 
means of securing peace in an empire. This party is known as 
Fa Chia (& gt), or " Legalists," among whom Wei Yang (iff $fc) 
was pre-eminent. He was a native of Wei ($|), but was obliged 
to enter the service of Ts'in (^), and tradition makes him author 
of many cruel forms of punishment provided for in the penal code 
of the latter state. 

Polygamy. — Polygamy has not only existed in China but 
has been legalized by Confucianism. Shun (^), the man who 
stands at the head of model rulers and men, was himself a 
polygamist. The secret of Dualism is laconically expressed in 
the Book of Change : "One bright spiVit and one dark spirit, 
constitute matter " (— Pi — T# £. fg si) . The most popular inter- 
pretation given by Confucianists is that " one male and one female, 
forms the basis of life." This is their theory but not their 
practice. Hou Fei (M#E), the queen of Wen Wang of Chou 
(JU3C£), is greatly praised because, as we are told, she was not 
jealous, but permitted her husband to have many women and 
consequently many children ! 

During the fifth and sixth centuries B.C., it was customary 
for a feudal chief to marry his daughter to another chief with 
many of her cousins or other relatives as maids (the number went 
up as high as nineteen) , so that in case she should die one of them 
would succeed her at the head of the harem. The practice of 
making concubines wives, was almost universal among the 
states; hence in 651 B.C. Duke Huan CMU&), the First Head 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 51 

of the states, saw fit to incorporate in the Treaty of K'uei Ch'iu 
(H fl5) the following injunction: "Do not make wives of your 
concubines." 

For over two thousand years no one seems to have regarded 
this evil as sin, and much less, as a crime, until one Li K'uei 
(3* HL), a " Legalist " and statesman of Wei (!&), in the time of 
the Seven States, saw fit to declare polygamy a crime punishable 
by death. While this has been the basis of later legislation, law 
has never been stronger than Confucianism ; and polygamy still 
exists at the present day, although in a modified form, known as 
concubinage. Under the statutes of the late Manchu Dynasty, 
polygamy was no less a crime, but the penalty had been com- 
muted to corporal punishment. The reason why Confucianism 
sanctions polygamy lies in the superstitious belief that death 
without an heir is a sin unpardonable. 

Divorce. — The ancients sanctioned seven reasons why a 
husband could divorce his wife, including "inability to bear a 
child." How far divorce was actually effected on this ground, 
we are not informed. It must not be understood that divorce in 
those days required legal proceedings as it now does in the West. 
All the husband had to do to get rid of an undesirable wife was to 
expel her by force. Tradition has it that one of the disciples of 
Confucius actually " divorced " his wife for her wilful neglect to 
cook a fruit thoroughly, as required by his parents. On the other 
hand, no ground ever existed in law for a wife to break away 
from a wretch ! 

Marriage Customs. — As the marriage ceremony of the 
present day is mainly a bequest from the Chou Dynasty, a des- 
cription of the customs then prevailing may not be out of place 
here. The first preliminary was the presentation of a pair of 
wild geese by the parents or guardians of the young man con- 
cerned. Their acceptance by the family of the girl in no way 
bound her or her relatives. It only meant that the parents of 
the girl were favourably inclined to hear any proposal that might 
be made. All negotiations were, as they are now, carried on 



52 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

through the medium of a match-maker. Having obtained the 
name of the girl through the match-maker, oracles were always 
consulted ; and, in case of a favourable reply, the family of the girl 
was so informed. Betrothal gifts usually consisted of ten pieces 
of red silk or cloth. On the day appointed for the wedding, the 
bridegroom proceeded to the house of the girl in a black carriage 
to welcome her. The whole ceremony consisted of six separate 
acts or parts ; the presentation of wild g^Qsc (JfaSjc), request for 
the name of the girl (fld&), notification of a favourable oracle 
(Ift cu), betrothal (ffli f$0, request for marriage (fit $3), and wedding 
(i i) . It was illegal, as it is now, to marry a girl bearing the 
same family name; and no boy under thirty, or girl under twenty, 
was competent to marry. Seclusion of the females was demanded 
at the age of seven. 

Respect for the Old. — The government of the Chou 
Dynasty may be described as follows : a father was supreme in a 
family; a king, in a state ; and old age, in a village. Every three 
years the people of each village met, when a banquet was given, 
presided over by a representative of the Crown and with guests of 
honour seated according to their ages. This was one of the 
most solemn occasions and detailed rituals were prescribed and 
followed. 

Chairs were unknown in those days and mats or cushions 
were used instead . The ceremony which was characterized by 
much kowtowing was, therefore, less tiresome then than it would 
be now. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 53 

CHAPTER XI 
RELIGION AND CULTURE 

Religion- — Before the introduction of Buddhism into China 
( A.D. 65) no religion in the true sense of the word was in exist- 
ence among the ancients. As already stated, Confucianism is 
not a religion but a system of morality. " No word for religion 
was known to the language; the notion of church or temple served 
by a priestly caste had not entered men's mind." (Parker's 
"Ancient China Simplified.") That the ancients had some 
knowledge of God, history abundantly attests. His worship, 
however, was one of the prerogatives of the reigning house or 
family; and, as "Sou of Heaven," the king alone could offer 
sacrifice to the Highest Divinity on behalf of his nation. Lesser 
ranks worshipped lesser divinities, such as the elements of nature, 
mountains and streams. The worship of the common people was 
confined to their own ancestors. It must be noted also that what 
the ancients did in the way of worship was nothing more than the 
performance of prescribed rituals, such as that of sacrifices and 
prayers. 

Idolatry. — Contrary to common belief, no idols were wor- 
shiped during the Chou Dynasty. It is true that tradition says 
that Wul «&) of the Shang Dynasty (B.C. 1198—1194) had 
some figures msde to represent certain gods whom he looked down 
upon with contempt. He had them put into a bag made of leather 
and partly filled with the blood of some animal; and then 
shot an arrow through it. As the blood began to flow out, he 
declared that he had killed the gods. But so far as we are able to 
ascertain no sacrifice had been offered to an idol. 

In ancestral sacrifices, persons chosen from amongst blood 
relations and dressed in costumes left by their ancestors, or 
which they were known to have worn, impersonated the dead. 
These persons could partake of the food and drink with other 
members of the family. For reasons hard to understand, a 



54 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

deceased father or mother was never represented at sacrifices by 
a son or daughter, bnt by grandsons or granddaughters. 

Prayer. — Prayer was most frequently resorted to in time of 
misfortune. T'ang, the founder of the Shang Dynasty, offered 
his prayer to Heaven in consequence of a severe famine ; and the 
Duke of Chou in his prayer at the time of the sickness of his bro- 
ther, Wu Wang, offered his own life to save that of the latter. 
Copies of these prayers are still extant. No priests existed 
then, it would seem ; but they were quite numerous by the 
time of Confucius. The Great Sage, however, disapproved of 
prayers. 

Human sacrifices were in vogue during the fifth century B.C. 
in all the Semi-Annamese States, such as Ch'u, Wu, and Yueh; 
but in orthodox China, no trace of it can be found. 

The presentation of sacrificial meat was considered a matter 
of prime importance and a mark of honour among the nobles. 
According to Mencius, it was solely on account of Confucius' 
refusal to accept such meat that he left his native state of Lu. 

Exorcism. — Exorcism was carried on in the time of the Chou 
Dynasty under official auspices at appointed times each year. 
Pestilence was, according to the belief prevalent among them, the 
work of evil spirits ; and to drive these spirits away, no higher 
power was necessary than that of persons wearing masks made of 
copper and coats made of the skins of bears. These persons walk- 
ed through the streets and went from house to house in pursuit of 
the evil spirits. This custom has been handed down to the present 
day, although there is now no official specially appointed for the 
purpose. 

Burial "of Companions to the Dead." — This evil custom 
was almost universal during the sixth and seventh centuries B.C. 
In the Book of Odes, we read an account of the funeral of Duke 
Mu of Ts'in (^&fi). Before his death, he had decreed that 
three of the ablest ministers of the time (brothers) should be in- 
terred with him. Although the nation did not approve of the 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 55 

choice thus made, yet the decree was faithfully carried out, and 
the three " good men of Ts'in " accompanied the remains of Duke 
Mu to their last resting-place. The tomb of Duke Huan of Chi, 
seven miles from Lin-tze ($s> §0 , was desecrated in A.D. 312, and 
bones of those buried with him were found, as were also a pound 
of mercury, arms, and valuables. It is evident that the ancients 
also buried utensils, used in the pursuit of any particular trade or 
profession, with their dead. When excavation is systematically 
carried out, many relics of antiquity will undoubtedly be found, 
such as will throw more light upon Chinese history than we have 
at present. It is claimed that some written documents, accident- 
ally unearthed during the third century B.C., verify the Confucian 
account of the Feudal period. 

The length of time within which an interment should be made 
varied according to the rank of the deceased, — from seven months 
in the case of a king to one month in the case of a scholar. 

Owing to lack of space, we cannot do full justice to mourning 
rites. Suffice it to say that upon the death of a parent, the chil- 
dren with their faces covered with dirt, must abstain from wines, 
delicacies and the use of silk as garments for a period of three 
years. 

Education and Literature. — There was a very good 
educational system with schools for the nobles as well as for the 
common people. There was a primary school for every 25 
families ; a higher school for every 500 families ; and a college 
for every 12,500 families. A boy was of school age when he 
reached his eighth year. The higher branches of learning con- 
sisted of (1) rituals, (2) music, (3) archery, (4) horsemanship, 
(5) literature, and (6) mathematics. In other words, education 
embraced moral, military and intellectual training. "It is the 
father's fault if at the binding of the hair (eight years of age) 
boys do not go to the teacher, though it may be the mother's fault 
if before that age they do not escape the dangers of fire and water ; 
it is their own fault if after having gone to the teacher they make 
no progress ; it is their friends' fault if they make progress but get 



56 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

no repute for it ; it is the executives's fault if they obtain repute 
but no recommendation to office ; it is the prince's fault if they are 
recommended for office but not appointed.' ' 

In the pre-Confuciau period, books were comparatively few. 
The best known are the Book of Record (#), Book of Odes (W) , 
Book of Change (S), Rites of Chou (M IB), and Kuan Tze (£ =R, 
or Political Economy, by Kuan Chung, the right-hand man of the 
First Head of the States. Books were made of bamboo-slips and 
the characters were painted oil them. The area of literary activity 
was confined to the modern provinces of Shantung and Honan, 
for the country to the north and west was Semi-Tartar, while to 
the south the people Avere Seini-Annamese. Interstate correspond- 
ence was also confined to this small area. The fact that quota- 
tions were frequently used by envoys at state banquets to express 
their ideas shows that they were able to understand each other only 
through the medium of written language. For example 'tiger', 
which was Fu (tit) in orthodox Ch'uh (3|), was known in Ch'u as 
Yiit'u (MR)] and this is an evidence that Ch'u, at least, had a 
dialect different from Central China. The dialectical barrier was 
gradually overcome, and by the time of Mencius, even Ch'u could 
boast of its literary renown. The State of Ts'in (^) never pro- 
duced any famous literary man. In fact, the men who did any- 
thing for her were all aliens. The period of the Seven States was 
a golden time in Chinese literature. The influence of the c< Per- 
pendicular " and " Horizontal " diplomats upon Chinese literature 
has been permanent and beneficial. 

Astronomy and the Calendar. — From the earliest times, 
the Chinese month has been lunar, that is, the days of the month 
are so arranged as to begin each new month with a new moon. 
The intercalating of an extra month in every thirty-three months 
has been done to make the equinoxes (# ft $c 5r) and solstices 
(K % %■ M) occur with as much regularity as possible in the same 
months of the year. The ancients had learned to divide the 
heavenly bodies into constellations and to observe the zodiacal 
signs. The Hsia Dynasty began the month first when the 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 57 

sun entered pieces. The year of the Shangs began one month 
earlier, and that of the Choustwo months earlier. In other words, 
what was the first month in the Shang and Chou calendar, was 
the 12th and 11th month, respectively, of the Hsia calendar. 

Science and Arts- — The science of medicine and surgery 
were developed to a considerable extent under the CI: cms. It was 
the first dynasty that had official doctors and surgeons. During 
the feudal period, however, Ts'in {%) surpassed the rest af China 
in the number of able physicians it possessed. It is quite possible 
that the art of healing had been treated as the private right of 
certain families who lived in the old capital of Chou, a part of the 
domain of Ts'in since 772 B.C. Whenever a noble became sick, 
he always sent to Ts'in for a physician, instead of to Chou. 

During the days of Yao (#£) the ranks of officials were denoted 
by the objects painted on their official costumes; such as the sun, 
moon, stars, constellations, dragons and other animals. Among 
the Chou officials, we find men whose function was to paint official 
garments. The three dynasties of Hsia, Shang, and Chou had 
all made use of jade or malachite rings, tablets, sceptres and so 
on as marks of official rank. 

Silk was universally known. That the women were mostly 
engaged in rearing silkworms, the Book of Odes abundantly 
testifies. Even the queen had to set an example in this industry 
at appointed times each year if she did not have to do the actual 
work. No cotton was known, so the poorer classes wore garments 
of hempen materials. In the cold weather, furs were used. 
Dyeing too was largely practised. 

The Chou Dynasty had regularly appointed officials whose 
business it was to teach the people how to take ores out of the 
mines and to manure their land ; but as to how far this useful 
knowledge had been acquired, we have very little information. 
The Chinese historians agree that the Shang mechanics were the 
best. This belief seems to have been based upon a statement of 
Confucius that he preferred the state carriage of the Shang 
Dynasty because of its workmanship. 



PART II 
MEDIAEVAL HISTORY 

CHAPTER XII 
THE CH'IN DYNASTY 

General Statement. — We have seen that the Chinese, prob- 
ably a transplanted race, established themselves first in tribal 
groups here and there along the course of the Yellow River at a 
remote period. In course of time the tribal government 
developed into a feudal system with hundreds of petty states 
scattered throughout the land which they called the Middle 
Kingdom. The next movement was towards consolidation which 




Carving of Phoenixes, etc. ist Century B.C. ("Chinese Art") 

reduced the number of states to seven. The union of the Seven 
States into one homogeneous whole was inevitable, and finally 
came in B.C. 221 as the result of the statesmanship of Prince 
Cheng (i ife), of Ch'in (^). While his dynasty lasted only fifteen 
years, still he left many permanent traces of his rule. 

His Early Life. — Very little is known of his early life, save 
that he inherited his father's princely throne at a very tender 
age. Tradition says that Prince Cheng was not the son of Chuang 
Hsiang Wang (&HEE), his reputed father. The latter, as the 
story goes, had been held as a hostage in the state of Chao. 
While there he met a wealthy merchant named L,u Pu-wei (£ ^C 
$), who, pretending to show his devotion to the young prince, 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 59 

made him take to wife a beautiful woman, already pregnant. It 
seems that this story was of later invention, and the work of 
personal prejudice. At any rate the son to whom Chuang Hsiang 
Wang's wife gave birth was one of the greatest empire builders of 
antiquity. During his minority, L,u Pu-wei (& ^ ^) was his 
first prime minister, and in that capacity exercised much of the 
royal power. 

Conquest of the Six States. — The Chou Dynasty with its 
eight-hundred years of power was already a thing of the past 
when Prince Cheng became king of the State of Ch'in. The last 
representative of the family of Chou had already been made away 
with by one of his predecessors. The work that was left for him 
to accomplish, therefore, was not the overthrow of the ruling 
house but the conquest of the six sister states. The policy 
pursued by Prince Cheng, or rather by his statesmen and generals, 
is best summed up in a statement of Hsu Tai (!&{£), a contem- 
porary politician, who was advising the Prince of Chao against 
continuing a struggle with one of his neighbors. "This 
morning," said he, "when crossing the river, I saw a mussel 
open its shell to sun itself. Immediately an oyster-catcher thrust 
its bill in to eat the mussel; but the latter closed its shell and 
held the bird fast. 'If it doesn't rain to-day or to-morrow,' cried 
the oyster-catcher, 'there will be a dead mussel.' 'And if you 
don't get out of this by to-day or to-morrow, there will be a dead 
oyster-catcher,' retorted the mussel. Meanwhile up came a 
fisherman and carried off both of them. I fear that the state of 
Ch'in will some day be our fisherman." In other words, Ch'in 
played off one state against another till they were all ex- 
hausted and then conquered them one by one. Han, the smallest 
of the states, was annexed fiist and the rest were added in the 
following order: Chao, Wei, Chu, Yen, and Chi, the last being 
the easternmost state. 

This brought the limit of the Ch'in empire only a little to 
the south of the Yangtze River; but always bent on new 
conquests, Prince Cheng lived to see it reach the sea on the east, 



60 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



the western part of the present Szechnen province on the west, 
the Great Wall on the north, and the sea and the southernmost 
part of Cochin China on the south. 

Chih Huang Ti, or the First Emperor. — Prince Cheng 
made a new title for himself. This title, Huang Ti, signifies in 
his own words, that "the holder is equal to the Three Divine 

Rulers in virtue and the Five 
Emperors in achievements." 
It was retained by his successors 
down to the last of the Manchus, 
and has been rendered "em- 
peror" in English. 

He also discontinued the 
practice of giving a deceased 
ruler a posthumous name. He 
decreed that thenceforth he was 
to be known as Chih Huang Ti, 
or First Emperor, his immediate 
successor, Erh Shih, or Second 
Emperor, and so on even down 
to the ten-thousandth genera- 
tion. As regards the name of 
his dynasty, he let it be known 
under the old name of his state. 
" It is interesting to note," says 
the author of "A Sketch of 
Chinese History," "that the 
name China is probably derived 
from this name, Ch'in, for the 
first westerners who knew any- 
thing about the Chinese, spoke of them as the people of the land 
of Ch'in, which afterwards became corrupted into the word 
'China'." 

End of Feudalism. — Having Diiilt an empire on the ruins 
of the old feudal system, the question arose as to how this huge 




Chih Huang Ti 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 61 

territory should be governed. The majority of the statesmen, 
the slaves of tradition, would have partitioned it out among a 
number of feudal lords as had been the custom with the Chous. 
Such an idea, of course, was offensive to a man who wanted 
history to begin anew with himself. Divided it must be, but 
there must be no feudal lords. Accordingly, Chili Huang Ti 
divided it into thirty-six provinces, each of which was sub- 
divided into districts, governed by agents directly responsible to 
him. One agent looked after civil matters, another after military 
affairs, and a third acted as a sort of inspector or intelligence 
officer of the Throne. Such was the form of government he 
introduced, and such has been the fcim of government that has 
come down to modern times, although in two thousand years, it 
lias undergone many changes in name and detail. All ownership 
of land and its inhabitants was vested in Chili Huang Ti. 

The Burning of Classics. — No radical change can take 
place in China without encountering the opposition of the literati. 
This was no less the case then than it is now. To abolish 
feudalism by one stroke was a radical change indeed. Whether 
the change was for the better or the worse, the men of letters took 
no time to inquire; whatever was good enough for their fathers 
was good enough for them and their children. They found 
numerous authorities in the classics to support their contention 
and these they freely quoted to show that Chili Huang Ti was 
wrong. The) r continued to criticise the government to such an 
extent that something had to be done to silence the voice of 
antiquity. As a consequence, an order came from the Throne, 
diiecting every subject in the empire, under pain of branding and 
banishment, to send all the literature he possessed, except works 
on agriculture, medicine and divination, to the nearest official to 
be destroyed by fire. As to how far this decree was enforced, it 
is hard to say. At any rate, it exempted all libraries of the 
government, or such as were in possession of a class of officials 
called Po Szu (if ±), or Learned Men. If any real damage was 
done to Chinese literature under the decree in question, it is safe 



62 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 




The Court of Chih Huang Ti 



to say that it was not of such a nature as later writers would have 
us believe. Still, this extreme measure failed to secure the 
desired end, and a number of the men of letters in Han Yang 
($U#), the capital, was subsequently buried alive. 

The Hsiung-rm. — The union of China was not effected a 
moment too soon. In the North, a formidable fos had arisen, 
whom the Chinese called Hsiung-nu. One Chinese authority 
seems to think that these barbarians descended directly from 
Hsiung Yu, son of Chieh, the last ruler of the House of Hsia. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 63 

He is said to have taken to wife his father's concubines and to 
have migrated into the steppes north of the Mongolian Desert. 
This might account for their earlier name of Hsiung Yun. If we 
may accept this suggestion the Hsiung-nu began to terrify the 
Chinese as early as the middle of the Chou Dynasty, for in the 
Book of Odes, we read of many expeditions against a tribe of 
barbarians known as Hsiung Yun. 

The Hsiung-nu were a nomadic people, moving from place 
to place with their flocks and herds and always in search of fresh 
pastures. They had 1:0 written language. As soon as their 
children were able to ride on the back of the sheep, they were 
taught the use of bows and arrows and how to hunt down small 
animals. Thus they became skillful archers when they were 
grown up. They lived chiefly by hunting and used the skins of 
animals for clothing. Those who were in the prime of life 
received the best of everything while the old could eat only what 
was left by them. 

To marry one's step-mother or a brother's widow was 
nothing improper with the Hsiung-nu. Their chief was called 
Shien-yu and it was their custom to meet with him several times 
a year for purposes of worship, one of their gods being Lung- 
Chen, or the Dragon god. When a chief died, a number of his 
wives and slaves was usually sacrificed. Murder was punished 
by death and theft by the confiscation of the thief's property. 
They always fought on horseback and prisoners of war became 
the slaves and property of the captor. 

The Great Wall. — It was because of this barbarous people 
that the Great Wall was built by Chili Huang Ti. This wall 
extends from Ling Tiao to Liao Tung and is about 1,500 miles 
long. It must not be supposed that this gigantic work was done 
all at once. As a matter of fact, separate walls had been erected 
by the States which bordered upon the territory of the Hsiung-nu. 
What was actually done by Chili Huang Ti was the uniting, 
strengthening and improving of the existing structures; and this 
work was executed under the supervision of General Mung Tien, 



•34 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



who had previously driven the Hsiung-nu out of what is now the 
Ordos country in Mongolia. It is stated that the immediate 
cause of the completion of this wall was an oracle which Chih 
g^'-^/"'"" --~~*~ ^ Huang Ti consulted. 
This oracle like the 
Delphic oracle could 
be read in two ways. 
It told him that it 
was Hu that was des- 
tined to overthrow the 
Ch'in empire. Now 
"Hu" is a Chinese 
character denoting the 
Hsiung-nu (Hun), as 
well as form in £ a 
part of the name of 
Chih Huang Ti's 
second son, Hu Hai. 
In view of the past 
history of the Hsiung- 
nu, it was natural that 
the oracle was inter- 
preted to mean the 
Northern Barbarians. 
210 while making a tour 




The Great Wall 



Chih Huang Ti died in B.C 
through the present Chihli province. 

The Religious Belief of the Age. — As already stated, the 
system introduced by Confucius was not a religion. It is silent 
as to the existence of the soul or the mystery of death. Its 
defect, that is the absence of a religious element, was felt as early 
as the closing days of the Chou Dynasty and people began to look 
elsewhere for explanation of a subject on which their greatest 
sage had said nothing. In the absence of anything better, they 
accepted what the Fang Szu (% ±) had to say on the point. This 
was a class of persons who professed to have discovered the elixir 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 65 

of life and who claimed as the founder of their sect the famous 
philosopher, Lao Tzu. So long as his death was not a matter of 
history it lent color to their story that he had overcome death by 
becoming one of the genii. That the Fang Szu, or magicians, 
should be able to gain the ear of so exalted a personage as Chili 
Huang Ti is proof that they had before his time secured a position 
of influence among the people. One expedition after another sailed 
into the Yellow Sea with instructions from Chili Huang Ti to 
locate a certain island said to be the abode of the genii and the 
site of the garden of plants possessing wonderful curative value. 
One of these expeditions headed by Hsii Fu (f£fis), deserves 
special mention. With 500 boys and an equal number of girls, 
and the most complete equipment in every detail, including sets 
of valuable and rare books, he set sail from a place in the vicinity 
of the present city of Chefoo and never returned. He is believed 
to have settled in Japan, and to have been the first to carry 
Chinese civilization to that country. 

Chih Huang Ti's Influence on Arts and Literature. — No 

architectural remains dating from the time of Chih Huang Ti are 
extant to-day. Nevertheless it is a well known fact that every- 
thing in architecture which had appealed to him in the lands he 
conquered was reproduced in his capital. Besides the A-Fong 
Palace, there were three hundred other palaces in Kuan Chung 
(Inside the Pass) and four hundred in Kuan Tung (East of the 
Pass). These were his temporary residences when he travelled 
through his empire. Of the places he visited, Shantung, Hunan, 
and Chekiang, may be mentioned. At one time he took a sea 
voyage along the coast from Chekiang to Chefoo. Wherever he 
went he caused stone monuments to be erected and each of them 
contained inscriptions of a eulcgistic character. This fact shows 
that the art of sculpture had reached a high stage of development. 
At the same time, the taste of the emperor undoubtedly gave a 
•great impetus to the art. 

The style of writing known as Lesser Seal, which was 
designed to take the place of the older and more cumbrous Big 



66 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Seal, was an invention of his reign. As this was still found to be 
unsuited to business purposes, C4iih Huang Ti caused the script 
to be further modified, At about the same time writing materials 
were perfected. Mung Tien, the general of the Great Wall fame, 
is generally believed to have been the inventor of the brush used 

in writing. The paper, so 
far as the cheaper bamboo 
variety is concerned, was 
not a product of this age 
(it came into use in the 
Han Dynasty); but accord- 
ing to our best information 
the expensive paper made 
of silk was in existence 
when the brush was in- 
vented. This belief is further 
strengthened by the fact that 
the Chinese character £ft, 
Chi (paper) , is written with 
the radical for silk instead 
of bamboo. It is hardly 
necessary to add that the 
invention of convenient 
writing materials and the 
simplification of the char- 
acters, marked the beo-inning 
of literary advancement in 
China. 




Script Invented by Li Sen 



Some Characteristics of the Age. — One of the char- 
acteristics of the age was the ascendency that had been attained 
by the teachings of Hsiin Tzu ("$ ^) . Almost all the statesmen 
who adorned the court of Chili Huang Ti were men of that school. 
They believed that the nature of man was bad and that peace and 
order were the result of fear. Man should be awed into submission, 
or there would be lawlessness. For the many unjust and cruel 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



laws and acts of tyranny with which the name of Chili Huang Ti 
is closely associated, he in reality was not so much to blame as 
was the spirit of the age. The same motive that led to the build- 
ing of the splendid palaces, and to the erecting of huge and costly 
stone monuments, was responsible for the •neting out of the 
severest sentences on the least show of offence. It was to impress 
the people at large with the greatness of the emperor and to make 
them stand in awe of him. If 
those measures succeeded in a- 
rousing the fear of the people, 
they also served to alienate their 
love, for the death of Chili Huang 
Ti was followed almost imme- 
diately by the breakup of the 
unity once the pride of his 
reign. 

Another characteristic of the 
age was the regard in which a 
merchant or trader was held. He 
was no better than a criminal. 
The first batches of men sent to 
work on the Great Wall and to 
serve on the southern frontier 
consisted of criminals and mer- 
chants. At a later date this 
punishment fell upon those 
whose fathers were known to 
have been merchants. 




IISIA AN 

Statesman and Scholar 



End of the Chin Dynasty. -Chili Huang Ti desired to 
leave his throne to his first son Fu Su(^.H). Unfortunately 
this son, who had been banished beyond the Great Wall because 
he had had the audacity to remonstrate with the all-powerful em- 
peror on the policy of his government, was not present at the time of 
his father's death. Worse still, the decree of succession fell into 
the hands of a eunuch, Chao Kao (£| }%) by name, who was a 



68 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

devoted friend of the emperor's second son, Hu Hai (#§ %). The 
death of Chili Huang Ti was kept a secret until the imperial 
party reached Han Yang. A false decree was then promulgated 
in the name of the deceased Emperor. In accordance with this 
Fu Su was put to death, and Hu Hai ascended the throne under 
the name of Erh Shih (n ifr), or Second Emperor. He proved a 
worse tyrant than his father, whose vices he inherited but with- 
out his greatness. During his short reign, Chao Kao became 
the real power. A story which is familiar to every Chinese 
schoolboy well shows the position this eunuch occupied in the 
government. One day, so the story runs, Erh Shih showed his 
courtiers a picture of a deer. " It's a horse " cried Chao Kao, 
and none of the crowd had the courage to contradict him, for the 
eunuch was more powerful than the sovereign. 

Rebellion was rife throughout the empire. In less than two 
years the descendants of the Earlier Six States had planted small 
kingdoms alongside those of other rebel leaders in Kuan Tung. 
Erh Shih in B.C. 206 was murdered by Chao Kao and Chih 
Huang Ti's grandson who was placed on the throne. He gave 
himself up to Liu Pang (fij #1?), the first general who entered the 
Pass, and afterwards the founder of the Han House (91), and 
brought with him the jade seal of state. He had been on the 
throne for less than 200 days ; but in this brief time, however, 
he had succeeded in punishing Chao Kao for the murder of his 
uncle. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



69 




I„iu Pang 



CHAPTER XIII 
THE HAN DYNASTY 

Struggle Between Ch'u and Han. — The Chin empire, as 
we have seen, ended in B.C. 206. From B.C. 206 to B.C. 202, 
there was actually no emperor in China ; and the principal event 
in this period of anarchy, was what we call the Struggle between 
Ch'u and Han (2Si% flj #). It was a continuous conflict between 
Hang Yu (*i( 31) and Liu Pang (fiJ?R), the 
former a native of Wu (^), and the latter 
of Pei (riff). Both of them had been lieu- 
tenants under King Huai of Ch'u ($g IS 3E>. 
This King was a descendant of the old 
Vuling house of the state of Ch'u, and 
during the troubles attending the break-up 
of the Ch'in empire, he set up a kingdom 
on the ruins. Through his valor and 
military renown. Hang Yu was made Commander-in-Chief not 
only of the forces of Ch'u, but also of the contingents from each 
of the other states. Although he had by far the stronger army, 
yet the honor of capturing the capital of the Ch'in empire belonged 
to Liu Pang. 

According to the promise 
of King Huai of Ch'u, Liu Pang, 
the first general to enter the 
capital, should have been made 
ruler of Kuan Chung (IS*); 
but it was here that the jealousy 
of Hang Yu appeared. The 
latter on his arrival at Han 
Yang (&Pi), took the royal 
power into his own hands and 
began to appoint feudal lords 
without referring them to the 




"0 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



King. Instead of the whole of Kuan Chung he gave Liu Pang 
only a portion of it, called Han Chung ($| *), with the title of 
king. As to himself, he preferred Kuan Tung, and at once 
assumed the title of King of Western Cli'u. Liu Pang did not 
like the manner in which he was treated, but policy required him 
to accept less than his due. The circumstances, however, were 
by no means entirely unfavorable to him. Hang Yu ?oon with- 
drew his men to the east and his absence from Kuan Chung 
permitted Liu Pang to gather strength. 

When Liu Pang felt himself strong enough to appeal to 
arms, hostilities broke out between the two rivals. For a time 
victory was on the side of Hang Yu, who made prisoners of Liu 

Pang's father and wife. But 

about B.C. 202, fortune deserted 

r / Hang Yu and he at once sued 

^~ I for peace. Meanwhile King 

JS^sV. | Huai of Ch'u had been murdered, 

presumably by the agents of 
Hang Yu. 

Death of Hang Yu. — Peace 
was at length concluded (B.C. 
202), and the river, Pien Ho (f* 
Jfif) in Honan, by mutual consent, 
was made the dividing line be- 
tween the kingdoms of Ch'u and 
Han. Assuming that war was 
at an end, Hang Yu, in good 
faith, returned to Liu Pang his 
father and wife, and began to 
retire into the South. In so doing, he had evidently over- 
estimated the character of his rival. As soon as he departed Liu 
Pang pursued him with the flower of his army. At Hai Hsi, the 
two armies met. The battle that ensued was a severe one and 
ended in the complete overthrow of Hang Yu, whose once power- 
ful armv was now reduced to a few followers. To avoid falling 



■:.■■■■■■.■■ 
1 



Dove-shaped wine vessel on wheels. 
Han Dynasty. (" Chinese Art") 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE H1STOKY 



71 



into the hands of his enemy, he killed himself while crossing the 
river O-kiang near Ho-ehow, in the modern Anhni Province. His 
death left Lin Pang" in undisputed possession of China. 

Accession of Lin Pang*. — When Lin Pang took the throne 
the famous city of Hsi An Fn (ffi *£) in Shensi (^ W), under the 
name of Chang An (^ 3c>, became for the first time the capital. 
The new dynasty he thus founded was the great Han Dynasty, in 
memory of whose greatness, the Chinese of North China still call 
themselves "the Sons of Han." 

To his credit, most of the unjust laws of the preceding- 
dynasty were repealed, though Liu Pang did nothing to exalt his 
own position. il I have never realized the dignity of an emperor, 
until to-day," exclaimed he; and this is sufficient to give us an 
idea of the character of his court. He revived the ancient law 
authorizing the conferring of a posthumous name on the emperor. 
As his temple name is Kao Tsu (iSi II), we shall hereafter speak 
of him by this name. 

Revival of 
Feudalism. — We 

must not think 
that Kao Tsu ruled 
as large an empire 
as that of Chih 
Huang Ti. The 
provinces south of 
the Yangtze were 
virtually inde- 

pendent and his 
authority was by 
no means supreme 

in the North, where the many feudal states gave nothing more 
than nominal submission at best. These feudal states may 
be divided into two classes; those held by members of his 
house, and those held bv others. The latter were the outgrowth 




Spring time in the Imperial Palace of the Han Dynasty. 
Picture by Ch'iu Ying. 15th Century A. D. ('Chinese Art" > 



72 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of the previous troubles, but the former were a necessity under 
the system of checks and balances. Thus after a comparatively 
short time the old feudal system was again an established fact. 
The reign of Kao Tsu was principally occupied with putting down 
rebellions headed by Han Hsin Uf fg), P ; eng Yueli (.&&), and 
other feudal lords, most of whom had been his best generals. In 
several cases his ingratitude was the actual cause of the rebellious. 
Towards the end of his reign, all the feudal states, with one or 
two exceptions, were held by members of his own house. 

An Encounter with the Hsiung-nu. — While China was 
again splitting herself into petty states, the Hsiuug-nu in the 
North had arisen to the height of their power. Under the leader- 
ship of their chief, named Mouton CM @), they not only conquered 
many of the neighboring tribes, but were also in a position to 
measure strength with China — terrible and civilized China, the 
builder of the Great Wall. 

At the head of a great horde, Mouton ravaged the 
northern part of what is now the province of Shensi. The cause 
of this invasion was that the chief of the feudal state of Han (^} 
(Northern Shensi) was suspected of disloyality, and was driven 
to cast his lot with the northern barbarians. Kao Tsu now led 
an army into what is now the prefecture of Tai Yuan to check 
the advance of his enemy; but he w T as outgeneraled, and falling 
into an ambuscade lost the greater part of his men. In the hour 
of misfortune, he sought refuge within the walls of the city of 
Ping Cheng C 2 ! 1 ^), which was closely besieged. It w T as only 
through judicious bribes that he succeeded in making good his 
escape under cover of a dense fog. The experience was enough 
for him, and he never again took the field himself against the 
Hsiung-nu. He gave a beautiful lady of his harem in marriage to 
Mouton and endeavored to keep friendly with him by occasional 
presents. His original plan was to give his own daughter to 
Mouton, but owing to the objection raised by his wife he sent a 
substitute. A dangerous precedent was thus established. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 73 

Kao Tsu's Immediate Successors. — Kao Tsu died B.C. 
195, and left the throne to his son, Hni Ti. This feeble monarch 
is said never to have recovered from the shock he received at the 
sight of what his mother termed the " human sow." * At any 
rate when he died in B.C. 188, his mother placed an adopted son 
on the throne. In the following year she caused the boy to be 
murdered and began to reign in her own right, thus becoming 
the first woman ruler of China. Many princes and nobles of 
her husband's house were mercilessly executed and members 
of her own family appointed in their stead. The empire was on 
the point of falling to pieces, when death removed her. An 
uprising which then took place in the capital resulted in the 
elevation cf a brother of Hui Ti to the throne. 

This prince ruled w T ith wisdom and generosity under the 
dynastic title of Wen Ti (X*), (B.C. 179-157). By him the 
severe modes of punishment which required the chopping off of 
the criminal's toes, the loss of his nose, etc., were abolished. 
Through his frugality he placed the empire in a sound financial 
condition. 

The reign of the next sovereign, Ching Ti (M: *) (B.C. 156- 
141) , is noted for the Rebellion of the Seven Princes. By this 
time, the feudal lords had become so insolent that they were a 
menace to the government. An attempt to curtail their powers 
made several of them start a revolt, which was speedily put down. 
A new measure by which a feudal prince could make no direct 
appointment in his own fief was thereafter scon introduced. 
While he continued to enjoy the income, his land in fact was 
governed by agents of the throne. In most cases, the feudal lords 
were even required to fix their residences at the capital. 

The Reign of Wu Ti. — The next reign, comprising the years 
B.C. 140 to B.C. 87, was one of the most important periods 



* She cut off the hands and feet of Lady Chi (]$ ffc A), P u t her eyes out 
and destroyed the organs of hearing and speech, and then casting the still living 
victim of her rage upon a dung-hill, she bade her son to go and inspect her. 
Ladv Chi was one of Kao Tsu's concubines. 



74 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

in Chinese history. It was an age of great generals, brilliant 
statesmen, and men of letters. During this reign, the Han 
Dynasty reached the zenith of its power, and the empire was 
greatly enlarged. In the south it included the modern provinces 
of Chekiang (Tung Ou 3KB0, Fukien (Min-yueh H jS) , the 
Two Kuangs and Cochin-China (Nan-yueh ^IS); in the south- 
west, all the barbarians that had held sway in Yunnan (H W, 
Kueichow (m M) , and Szechuen, now acknowledged the supremacy 
of the Han emperor ; while in the north, the power of the Hsiung- 
nu was shattered and the boundary of the empire included what 
is now Inner Mongolia in the north, the Tien Shan Nan Lu in 
the northwest, and Liao Tung and north Corea in the north- 
east. Within the limit of this chapter we have only room to 
relate the events that were connected, directly or indirectly-, with 
the campaign against the Hsiung-nu. 

Chang Ch'ien's Mission to Hsi Yueh.— Since the days of 
Mouton the Hsiung-nu had subdued all the tribes that lived in 

what is now Manchuria in the east and 
Chinese Turkestan in the west, and they 
had not left the Chinese along the northern 
frontier in peace. Nominally their Shen 
Yu was the nephew by marriage of the Han 
emperor, but this did not prevent them 
from pursuing their usual course of plunder 
and murder. 

Wu Ti decided that this condition of 
affairs should exist no longer. At this 

II AN WU Ti & 

juncture it was reported to him that a kin- 
dred tribe of the Hsiung-nu, Yueh Ti (JI fi) by name, since their 
expulsion by the former from their original home in Ho Hsi (M j3S), 
had founded a powerful nation in what is now Bokhara. An 
alliance with this old enemy of the Hsiung-nu might certainly 
prove of advantage to China. With this end in view, he sent 
Chang Ch'ien ($k%) to open up communication with Hsi Yueh 
(Pi &), or Chinese Turkestan. 




OUTLINES OK CHINESE HISTORY 




Coins ok Parthia. 



Before giving an account cf this mission it will be necessary 
to state something of the prevailing sitnatk n in the region through 
which it passed. 

Hsi Yueh, from times immemorial, has been known as the 
44 routes," Tien Shan Pei L,u (3*c \1\ ft KO and Tien Shan Nan Lu 
(5c \h ]$ itt), or the Northern and the Southern Routes, according 
to their positions in relation to the great Tien Shan Mountain 
system. In Nan I v ii, which Western writers call Kashgar, there 
were a number of states, or groups 
of people, some of whom had cities 
while others were no better than 
nomad herdsmen. Most of their 
cities are now however buried under 
the ''shifting sands" (fa®). The 
Kingdom of Yueh Ti was beyond the Ts'ung Ling (?&&') range. 
It was bounded on the northeast by Ta Yiian (Jc $&) (Fergana) 
and K'ang Chii (& Jg) (Hasak country) , on the west by Parthia 
(£ 10 , and on the south by Kashmir (Jg| ^f) . East of Ta Yuan was 
the Osung (feU) country (Hi). 

Such was the situation in Hsi Yiieh at the time Chang Ch'ien 
started on his mission. He left China B.C. 139; and, after being 
kept a prisoner by the Hsiung-nu for ten years, finally reached his 

destination by way of Ta 
Yuan and K'ang Chii. 
Travelling through Bactria 

[&> ^it^^^^i \rtv 'pfik^r <s? ^ ^> ^ ie tr ^ e ^ to return t>y 

X%^f ^f^S^rJ/ the Khotan-Lobnor (f^I 

SfiJ^ ^©3^ v%m route; ^ again 

COINS OF BACTRIA. f^ fafo the nand g Q f t l ie 

Hsiung-nu and did not reach China till B.C. 126, having been 
absent thirteen years. Of the more than a hundred men who set 
out with him, only two returned with him. 

While the mission failed to accomplish the purpose for which 
it was sent, Chang Ch'ien brought home valuable information of 
the country, which ultimately led to the isolation of the Hsiung- 





r 6 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



nu. In Bactria he found bamboo staves, cloth and other goods, 
which he recognized as products of Szechuen, offered for sale, and 
was told that they were brought therefrom Sindhu (.£ #) (India). 
He reported to the emperor the existence of this foreign trade with 
China by way of the southwest, and brought the grape vine, the 
lucerne, the pomegranate, an! several other plants, which wer e 
afterwards planted in the Shang Lin (Jfc $fc) Park. 

The reason why Ta Yiieh Ti (Jc J £)* did not enter into an 
alliance with China was that they had found a much more ideal 
country than their old 
home. The exodus of the 
Y'iieh Ti may be regarded 
as the beginning of the 
westward movement of the 
Hsiung-nu, or the Huns 
(49 A;, as Western writers 
call them. The Huns 
first became known to the 
Greeks under the name of 
Chuni, probably a cor- 
ruption of the Chinese 
term, Hsiung-nu. At all 
events, they have been 
identified as of the same stock as the Hsiung-nu. 

Conquest of the Hsiung-nu.— In the meanwhile, Wu Ti had 
gained many important victories over the Hsiung-nu. After the 
failure of the scheme to entice them into an ambush at Ma Yi 
(H e), t their incursions had been more frequent. At last in B.C. 
127, Wu Ti was obliged to send an army to attack them in their 
own country. The Chinese were victorious and they recovered the 
Ordos country, which was turned into a province, under the name 
of vShuo Fang (W Jj), the Northern Region. 




Coin of Ta Yueh Ti 



*Ta Yiieh Ti, name of Kingdom. Yiieh Ti, name of people. 

tThe Shen Yu was invited to settle in Ma Yi where armies lay in ambush 
awaiting the arrival of the barbarians. Before arriving at the place, their suspicion 
was aroused, and by means of torture they got the emperor's messengers to tell 
the truth, whereupon they immediately retired to their own country. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



77 




After the return of Chang- Ch'ien the Chinese policy began to 
mature. That policy was to isolate the Hsiung-nu, or to break 

down their power in the west. 
Thus in B.C. 121, a few years after 
the return of the envoy, a Chinese 
general named Ho Chu-ping CM £• f&) 
took an army through Lung Hsi 
(P! M) , captured two of the Hsiung- 
nu kings there, and advanced as 
far west as the Chi Lien Mountain 
(Sir ai lU). This victory was followed 
by a still greater victory two years 
later when the Hsiung-nu were 
driven into the region north of the 
desert. It is stated that 19,000 of their men were either slain or 
captured by the Chinese. 

Having gained complete possession of Ho Hsi, the Chinese 
organized it into another province with garrisons stationed a*t 
Wu Wei (ft jfc), Chang Yi (ft ft), Chiu Chuan («&) and Tun 
Huang (%L f£k) . From the last named place they established 
military posts as far west as Lun Tai (Im H\ thus extending 
their dominion through Nan Lu. This succeeded in interrupting 
the communication between the Hsiung-nu and the Tibetan 
tribes of the Kokonor (W*&) region, or the Ch'iang (%) , as the 
ancient historians called them. 

In B.C. 120, the king of the Osung tendered his submission, 
and to him a Chinese princess was given in marriage. This 
virtually blocked the Hsiung-nu in the west. During the 
following years the war between China and the Hsiung-nu centred 
in Lou Lan ($!■), a state situated between the great northern 
and southern routes. (The place is now buried in the sands.)* 
Lou Lan acted as a sort of buffer state until its king was killed in 



*Recent excavations carried on in this region have brought to light 
many articles of antiquity. 



7^ OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

battle by the Chinese. In B.C. 102-101 an army advanced as 
far as Fergana, overran the kingdom of Ta Yuan, and brought 
back in triumph thirty Nisaean (^c,i) horses. Meanwhile 
friendly missions had been exchanged with Bactria, Parthia, and 
Sogdiana. According to Chinese annals, the Parthian king at 
one time sent a band of Parthian acrobats and magicians for the 
amusement of his brother, the Wu Ti of the Han Dynasty. 

Conquest of Corea. — The term Corea in that remote period 
included the southeastern part of Sheng King and the northern 
part of modern Corea. It was the territory between the rivers 
Liao (s&) and Ta Tung (jz ffl ft). On the north was the home of 
the Su Shen (US tE) tribes, the ancestors of the Manchus, and on 
the south w 7 ere the Three Hans (H If), the ancestors of the present 
day Coreans. The descendants of Ch'i Tzu (HiPO, brother of 
Chon (*t), the last ruler of the House of Shang, had ruled in 
Corea down to the year B.C. 194, at which time the House of Wei 
Man (f|f$l> came into power. The kings of the new line were 
no friends to China. It was to prevent the Hsiung-nu from 
marching into this region, that Wu Ti endeavored to invade it 
both by land and sea. At first the Chinese fared badly, but in 
B.C. 108, the people killed their king and surrendered. 

Towards the end of the reign of Wu Ti, the Hsiung-nu were 
successfully isolated. The great emperor died in B.C. 87 . 

Character of Wu Ti. — In many respects, Wu Ti was not 
unlike Shih Huang Ti. That he continued the work of the latter 
in reducing the power of the Hsiung-nu needs no repetition here. 
Like Shih Huang Ti, he was a great patron of architecture and 
other arts, and was completely under the influence of the Taoist 
magicians. Instead of sending missions into the Yellow Sea, 
however, he adorned his capital and the surrounding country 
with lofty buildings ; for he had been led to believe that by means 
of these structures man could have direct communication with 
the genii. In one of these buildings were installed two huge 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



79 



copper images with large bowls in hand to receive the elixir from 
the genii (-& A & M 4£) . Magicians of all descriptions, both male 
and female, flocked into his court. 

At about the same time, literature made great advances. 
There flourished in this reign Sz Ma Chien (m & il), the Chinese 
historian, and Sz Ma Hsiang Yn (m H ffl *n), Mei Sheng (tt fH), Li 
Ling (<£ &), Sn Wu (.!*$;) and others, whose works, in prose and 
poetry are regarded as the best 
literary productions of antiquity. 
Since distant expeditions were al- 
ways costly, many unjust measures 
were resorted to to obtain money. It 
is stated that official ranks were for 
the first time offered for sale in this 
period. The emperor, however, 
regretted his own shortcomings, 
and all unjust or burdensome 
measures were repealed shortly 
before his death. 



The Decline of the Hsiung- y 
nu Power. — After the severe de- 
feats inflicted by Wu Ti, the power 
of the Hsiung-nu was rapidly 
declining. In an attempt to dislodge 
the Osung in B.C. 71, they had to 

face an overwhelming force consisting of Chinese and Osung 
soldiers and lost most heavily. Thenceforth the Hsiung-nu were 
hemmed in by the neighboring tribes, viz., the Ting Ling (T3r) in 
the north, a kindred people of the region around Lake Baikal, the 
Osung in the west, the Tung Hu OfC $) in the east, and the Chinese 
in the south. In B.C. 60, a Hsiung-nu Khan in Pei Lu (0 iE 3i), 
in consequence of a civil war, sought protection from the Han 
emperor, thus giving the Chinese complete possession of the 
Northern Route. [Then followed a period of great revolution 
among other Hsiung-nu tribes. As a consequence, as many as five 




Liu Hsiang, noted scholar of tlie 
Han Dynasty 



80 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Shen Yus were set up by different factions. One of them named 
Hu Han-hsie (u^ $$9B), in the hour of distress surrendered himself 
to the Chinese emperor, and received permission to settle with his 
followers in Mo-nan C& j$j), where they acted as frontier guards of 
the Chinese marches. In B.C. 36 he came in person to pay his 
respects to the emperor; and, at his request, a famous beauty by 
the name of Wang Chao-kun (3E Bg M) was given in marriage to 
him. 

The Usurpation of Wang Mang. — The cause of the down- 
fall of the Han Dynasty is to be traced to the ambition of its 
imperial women. The example set before them by Wu Chih (^ 
*ft; was a most dangerous one. In a country like China, where 
the separation of the two sexes is a matter of fixed custom, even 
an empress could not make friends among her husband's ministers. 
Therefore when power fell into her hands she knew of no one in 
whom she could place her confidence except her own people and 
the eunuchs. The fact that Wu Ti caused the mother of his son 
to be put to death before he appointed him heir, is sufficient to 
show that the interference of an empress dowager in affairs of 
state had long been a matter to be dreaded. It was the undue 
influence of the imperial women that finally brought the house of 
Han to ruin. 

Wang Mang (3E#), the notorious usurper, was the nephew 
of one empress and the father of another. The mother of Cheng 
Ti (/£#■) (B.C. 32— B.C. 7) was from the Wang family, and 
when her son came to the throne, her brothers were at once raised 
to positions of great influence. Every one of them abused the 
power that fell into his hands. Wang Mang, who was then a 
mere lad, was the reverse of his uncles in his private character. 
He did everything he could to conceal his true character and to 
cultivate the friendship of the literary class. As a result, 1 e was 
as popular as his uncles were unpopular. It was not long before 
he succeeded to a most important position which had been held 
by one of his uncles. During the short reign of Ai Ti (S #) 
(B.C. 6-B.C. 1) he was obliged to retire; but upon the accession 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 81 

of the next emperor, Ping Ti i 2 ^ ffr) (A.D. 1-5). he returned to 
office, for this emporor was his son-in-law. His ambition, how- 
ever, knew no relative; and when his time arrived, he showed his 
true character by murdering the emperor, forcing him to drink 
a cup of poison on new year's clay. A lad ($1 =f fg) was then 
placed on the throne, with Wang Mang acting as an "assistant 
emperor (f[S ^#)." Two years later the "Assistant Emperor" 
became a full emperor and the Han Dynasty was no more. 



*This is a peculiar ufe of the Character, Chia ^, meaning unreal, artificial, 
etc., during the Han Dynasty. It was quite usual for an official to have an 
associate or assistant and such associate or assistant, as a rule, had the character 
Chia prefixed to his official title. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 
CHAPTER XIV 

THE EASTERN HAN DYNASTY 

Reign of Wang Mang (3E#).— If reverence for tradition 
may justly be regarded in the light of a virtue, as is the case in 
China, Chinese history gives us no name which stands out more 
pre-eminently than that of Wang Mang, the Usurper. Perhaps 
the word u Old ' would give us a better impression of the 
character of his government than " New" (if), the name he 
adopted for his dynasty. Once upon the throne, he busied him- 
self in bringing to life all laws and institutes that experience had 
long since discarded as out-of-date and impracticable. From 
morning till late in the evening the " new " emperor was seen 
at his desk reading, writing, and legislating. The Chou Li (M j@), 
or the Institutes of the Chou Dynasty, became his guide. The 
ancient system of Ching Tien (# ffl) was revived and many 
ridiculous currency laws were promulgated. It was quite as much 
a crime to buy or sell land as to depreciate the currency issued by 
the government. At length, excessive taxation, unjust laws, 
incessant border warfare, severe famines, and the corruption of 
officials—all combined to arouse the people ; and standards cf revolt 
were unfurled in more than one place in the empire. One band 
of insurgents, called " Red Eyebrows " MM) from their custcm 
of dying their eye-brows red, broke out in what is now Shantung- 
province. Another rose in Hukuang and had headquarters in the 
Lu Lin (It ft) Hill (."Green Forest"). At first these men had 
no higher aim than to plunder and to kill ; hence the name, " Green 
Forest", has become a general term for highway robbers in China. 

Had Wang Mang taken wise measures, he might have been 
able to save himself ; but he was superstitious and believed that 
by shedding tears towards the south, the rebellions would die a 
natural death. Even at the last moment, when he was dragged 
out of a tower in his palace, where he had been hiding, he still 
held in one hand a small knife said to have been handed down 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 83 

from Shun i'M), and in the other the symbolic instrument of the 
Taoist magicians. This account may have been an exaggeration 
of his enemies, but it is certain that his failure was attributable to 
his faith in the ancients. He was beheaded in A.D. 22; but peace 
did not come to the nation until a member of the house of Han, 
Liu Hsiu (WIT?) byname, assumed the imperial title two years 
later. As Liu Hsiu fixed his capital at Lo Yang ($&■ |$), about 
60 miles east of Chang An (Jk 58c), the capital of the Former Han 
Dynasty, the new dynasty has been known under the name of the 
Eastern Han («). 

Kuang Wu. — The dynastic name of Liu Hsiu was Kuang 
Wu Ofc^t). When he ascended the throne, Chang An was in the 
hands of the " Red Eyebrows " who had placed another member 
of the house of Liu on the throne. Other rebels had also set up 
emperors, or declared independence in other 
parts of the empire. It was by great exertion 
that Liu Hsiu succeeded in extinguishing 
every spark of rebellion in China. In this 
connection it should be remarked that in 
what is now the province of Fukien the 
inhabitants had been transferred to the 
Lower Yangtze Valley by order of Han Wu 
kuang wu ^ anc | t j iat t j ie p rov i nce ] ia( j completely dis- 

appeared from history. It is doubtful whether the army of Kuang 
Wu ever entered this part of China, although one of his generals 
went as far south as Tonquin and crushed a rebellion there. 

As regards the Hsiuug-nu who had again become active and 
had wrested Hsi Yueh from China, Kuang Wu felt that their 
subjugation was a task he had to leave to his successors. The 
empire needed rest and the arts of peace were no longer to be 
neglected. He accordingly devoted the remainder of his reign to 
works of peace by patronizing learning and the arts. He got rid 
of his generals without bloodshed by retiring them on a liberal 
allowance. This act at least entitles him to a higher place in 
history than Kao Tsu, the founder of the Former Han. 




M OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

In his work of reorganization, however, Kuang Wu greatly 
enlarged the field of employment for eunuchs and thus sowed the 
seed of trouble, which was soon destined to bring ruin to the 
house that he had just restored. The history of the Eastern 
Han is largely a record of the ebb and flow of the power of the 
eunuchs. 

After reigning thirty-three years, Kuang Wu died in A.D. 
57, at the age of sixty-three, and left his empire to his son, Ming 
Ti (A.D. 58-75). 

Introduction of Buddhism into China.— The most im- 
portant event of the reign of Ming Ti was undoubtedly the official 
introduction of Buddhism into China. We say official introduc- 
tion because its unofficial introduction dates as far back as the 
reign of Han Wu Ti, or soon thereafter. Chinese historians claim 
that the golden image found among the plunder of his soldiers 
from Hsi Yiieh was that of Buddha. While this was more or less 
guesswork, it is a matter of history that in B.C. 6 an ambassador 
from the Massagatae to China, with the aid of a certain Chinese 
scholar, translated a Buddhist book into Chinese. It is safe 
therefore to conclude that soon after the opening up of com- 
munications with the West through Hsi Yiieh, there began to be 
an influx of Buddhist missionaries into lands then subject to the 
sway of the Hsiung-nu. 

There is a legend that Ming Ti had a dream in which he saw 
a giant, and that when he told his ministers what he had seen, 
one of them immediately informed him that it was the Sage of the 
West, called Buddha. This shows that Buddhism was not unknown 
at his court. The envoys that Ming Ti sent to inquire into the 
faith returned in A.D. 65 with two Indian priests* and a number 
of their classics. These priests were housed in the White Pony 
Temple (6 H #), the first Buddhist temple erected with imperial 



*The names of these priests are Kasayapa Matanga ($| Jfg flf ) and Dhawara 
Keha (4* y£ §!)• Kasayapa Matanga translated a small but important sutra, 
called vSutra of Forty-two Sections. 



OUTLINES OK CHINESE HISTORY 



85 



sanction in China, and named after the pony that brought back the 
Sutra (*5), and here they continued to reside and translate the 
Buddhist literature until they died. 




Sakaymuni 



Buddhism. — Buddhism, so far as its Hindu origin is con- 
cerned, was an offspring of Brahmanism, the earlier faith of the 
Hindus. This earlier faith was a belief in a single god, Brahma 
as he was called, who was the cause and mover of all things. 
The soul, too, comes from Brahma and passes through all forms 



< s >> OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of animal life, until finally, having freed itself from all imper- 
fection, it goes back to him. The great aim of existence was to 
reach this final state and mingle with Brahma. Such was the 
substance of Brahmanisin. 

In course of time the old faith reached such a stage of decay 
that reformers were required to remind the believers of its 
essentail truths. "Of these reformers the greatest was Prince 
Gautama, commonly known as the Buddha, or the ' Enlightened', 
whose reforms were of such a radical nature as virtually to found 
a new religion. Yet he did not quarrel with the old, but merely 
interpreted it anew, and gave it a more practical character. 

k< Buddha was born about the middle of the sixth century B.C. 
He was a member of a royal house, but left his home, his wife 
and newly born child to find religious peace and the way to 
salvation. He sought truth from the Brahmans in vain, and 
spent seven years in religious meditation. Finally he learned the 
truth he had been seeking. It was summed up in the two ideas 
of self-culture and universal love. About 522 B.C. he proclaimed 
his creed at Benares. In the details of worship, he left the 
ancient Brahmanism unchanged ; but he taught that every act in 
this life bears its fruit in the next. Every soul passes through 
successive lives, or reincarnations, and its condition during one 
life is the result of what it has done in a previous state. The aim 
of life is the attainment of Nirvana — a sinless state of existence, 
which requires constant self-culture. Four truths were especially 
taught': first, that all life is suffering; second, that this suffering 
is caused by the desire to live ; third, that the suffering ceases 
with the cessation of this desire; fourth, that this salvation can be 
found by following the path of duty. A very high morality was 
preached, including the duties of chastity, patience, mercy, 
fortitude, and kindness to all men." * 

After his death Buddha was worshiped as a divine being. His 
disciples carried the faith through India and thence it spread to 
the northwest, and to the southeast of that county. About B.C. 



*Colbv's Outlines of Genera! History. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



87 



377, there was a division among the Buddhists; the Northern 
branch had their centre in Kashmir, while the Southern section 
made Ceylon their headquarters. It was the Northern creed that 
was introduced by .Ming Ti into China. Their books were written 
in Sanskrit while those of the Southern creed were in Pali. 

Of the spread of Buddhism in China, we shall learn more as 
we proceed with the narrative. 

Capture of Hami.— As already stated, the Hsiung-nu threw 
off their allegiance to China in the days of Wang Mang. About 
A.D. 48, they divided into two sections. The Northern Hsiung-nu 




Tomb of Sakaymuni 

sought expansion in the west ; but the Southern Hsiung-nu went 
over to the side of the Chinese emperor and were given permission 
to settle in what is now the Ordos country in Inner Mongolia. In 
A.D. 73, China, having sufficiently recovered from the effect of 
her own civil disorders, was ready to resume the conflict, and a 
severe battle was fought near Lobnor between the Northern 



88 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Hsiung-nu on one side and the Southern Hsiung-nu and Chinese 
on the other. The latter won the day and captured what is now 
Hanii. It was about this time that the old policy of isolating the 
Hsiung-nu was again resorted to, for the man who could carry this 
plan to success had been found. 

Exploits of Pan Chao. — The name of this man was Pan 
Chao (iffitl). At first Pan Chao was sent on a friendly mission to 
test the loyality of the States to the Northern Hsiung-nu. By 
tact, treachery, threats, and bribes, he induced several of them to 
accept the Chinese emperor in place of the Shen Yu as their over- 
lord. While he was thus travelling from one state to another, 
two Chinese generals gained another battle over the Hsiung-nu 
and occupied what is now called Turf an ; whereupon the Hsi Yiieh 
dependency was reestablished after an interim of sixty-five years. 
But the states in the Northern Route as well as those between 
Kucha and Karashar remained loyal to the Hsiung-nu. At this 
juncture Ming Ti died (A.D. 75) and there arose at once on the 
western horizon a cloud which cast a shadow over the whole of 
Hsi Yueh. The Northern Hsiung-nu returned, and gathering up 
what forces those states were able to put in the field, attacked the 
Chinese garrisou and laid siege to the cities in which the represen- 
tatives of the Chinese government resided. Rumor soon reached 
Lo Yang that the whole of Hsi Yiieh was in revolt and caused the 
weak government of Chang Ti (# *) (A.D. 76-88) to give up the 
work begun by his father and recall Pan Chao. 

The latter in the meanwhile had formed a plan for the 
subjugation of Hsi Yiieh. His mission had already borne fruits, 
which, if given due time, were sure to ripen. He accordingly 
protested and informed his emperor that the task could be done 
without such cost of money and life as had been suggested by the 
statesmen at home. Many of the states were willing to furnish 
the number of men needed to carry on the war, provided China 
would drill and lead them to battle. There was, therefore, 
no reason why these friends should be abandoned to their fate, or 
China should let the opportunity slip. At last the counsel of Pan 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 89 

Chao prevailed and permission was given him to remain. Before 
long this trained Chinese diplomat became the commander cf the 
combined forces of Khotan and Kashgar. These he led from 
victory to victory until not a vestige of the Hsiuiig-nu power 
remained in Hsi Yueh. First by diplomacy, and then by force, 
he had recovered Hsi Yueh to China ; and, in A.D. 91, was re- 
warded with the viceroyalty of the whole region that he had lately 
conquered. Six years later, he led an army as far as Antiochia 
Margiana and sent his lieutenant, Kan Ying (~fr 5t), on an embassy 
to Rome. The envoy reached the Persian Gnlf ; but, fearing the 
sea voyage, came back without accomplishing his purpose. 

Disappearance of the Northern Hsiung-nu.— With Hsi 
Yueh restored to China, the fate of the Northern Hsiung-nu was 
sealed. In A.D. 89, Ton Hsien (H I£) , having committed a serious 
crime, obtained permission to lead an army against them in order 
to expiate his guilt. In this expedition he was quite successful 
and drove the horde of barbarians beyond the Yen Jan (ffijfa 
Khougi) Mountain. On a stone monument erected on the field 
was engraved an account of the battle from the pen of Pan Ku 
m m) , brother of Pan Chao. It is stated that more than 200,000 of 
the barbarians surrendered themselves to the Chinese. Following up 
the advantage thus gained, Ton Hsien inflicted another overwhelm- 
ing defeat on the enemy two years later, and took a second batch 
of prisoners, among whom was the mother of the Shen Yu. Pre- 
ferring emigration to submission, the latter led the remainder of 
his tribes to the west, after abandoning their lands to the Hsien Pei 
(H^.). Henceforth, the Northern Hsiung-nu completely disap- 
peared from history ; and when, centuries afterwards, the volcanoes 
of Mongolia became active again, the streams of barbarians that 
issued from that region were designated by new names. 

Trade with the West. — As a rule, Chinese annals contain 
but meagre references to foreign commerce. If we may accept the 
truth of the statement that trade follows the flag, we may safely 
conclude that China entered into trade relations with the West 
directlv after the opening up of communications through Hsi 



90 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Yiieh. China was known to the Greeks as Seres, or the land of 
silk. In that remote period there was a kind of Chinese silk called 
Sen Er which was one of the articles that were sent each year by 
the emperor to the kings of the petty states in Hsi Yiieh. That 
the Roman Empire was known by the name of Ta Chin (;£ ^) is on 
record. Not only did China try to reach Ta Chin but the people 
of the latter also attempted to open direct intercourse with the 
Chinese. Between the two great empires, were the Parthians who 
desired to reap all the benefits of middlemen. It was not until 
the Romans had access to the Persian Gulf that the idea of reach- 
ing China by water began to appeal to them. Roman merchants 
came by sea to Kattigara (Cochin China) in A.D. 166 whence they 
travelled overland to Lo Yang. They appear in the annals as en- 
voys from the emperor An Tun (35ffc) (Marcus Aurelius Antoninus) . 
L,ater arrivals at Cantcn were recorded in A.D. 226, 284, etc. Be- 
sides the caravan route which lay through Hsi Yiieh, Cochin 
China, it would appear, was the centre of China's marine trade 
during the latter part of the Eastern Han. 

Decline of the Eastern Han.— Before the arrival of the 
first Roman traders, the Eastern Han Dynasty had entered upon 
a period of decline. For reasons stated in the last chapter, when- 
ever there was a woman on the Chinese throne, the usurpation of 
power by eunuchs and her own relatives was inevitable. This was 
no less true of the Eastern Han than of the Former Han, though 
there is this much difference. During the former dynasty, the two 
parties always worked hand in hand; during the latter dynasty, 
they were constantly engaged in bringing ruin to one another. In 
the main, the eunuchs were masters of the situation and their ex- 
termination was followed by the downfall of the dynasty only a 
few years later. 

Period of Eunuch Ascendency. — This period commenced 
in the reign of Ho Ti <ffi #), who came to the throne at the age 
of ten. During his mother's regency, his uncle, Ton Hsien, was 
the real power. Being jealous of him, the first official act of the 
emperor on assuming the government himself was to cause his 



OUTLINES OK CHINESE HISTORY 91 

death. This was no easy task, for the court was made up of Ton 
Hsien's own creatures. Under these circumstances, he looked to 



his chief eunuch, Chen Chung by name, for help. While the 
emperor succeeded in getting" rid of his uncle, he did not improve 
matters. During the remainder of his reign, he never freed 
himself from the clutches of the eunrch. His infant son 
outlived him but a few months, and during this time and the 
minority of An Ti, the next monarch, the Empress Teng was 
regent. She would see no minister of state, but suffered her 
eunuchs to be the sole medium of communication. It was not 
long before their Infltjf.nce was turned into real Powkr. They 
had a voice in every question and had an important part to play- 
in every intrigue. 

The destruction of Liang Chi ($t H), brother of the Empress 
Liang (*&M) and murderer of Chili Ti (ft*), gave the eunuchs 
undisputed control of the government. Five of them were 
ennobled, a thing hitherto unknown in Chinese history, and no office 
was now too high for a eunuch. Those in power could exalt 
their friends and slay their enemies at pleasure. In China, the 
emperor was the state, but he was a mere tool of the eunuch 
during the reigns of Huan Ti (^ ffr) and Ling Ti (M *), which 
embraced the years 147-187. If castration had once been the 
result of a crime, or an offense, it was now the stepping stone to 
wealth and power. To become the adopted son of a eunuch was 
the best passport an official could have, and to obtain such a favor 
self-castration was often resorted to. 

Anti-eunuch Movement. — Since the eunuchs abused their 
powers to such an extent, there arose an anti-eunuch party headed 
by Li Ying, a literary genius of the Eastern Han Dynasty. They 
were radical reformers and advocated the total abolition of the 
eunuch system. They gathered around Tou Wu, brother cf the 
Empress Tou, who was considered a match for the chief eunuch. 
Under a wise and strong monarch, Li Ying might have hoped for 
success; but Ling Ti, who was in the habit of addressing his 
eunuchs by the familiar terms of " Mother " and u Father," was 



92 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

not the man. Besides, he was in partnership with them. Every 
office had its price and the proceeds were divided equally between 
the emperor and the eunuchs. The consequence was Li Ying and 
all his followers numbering 100 cr more were condemned to death. 
Kven the Empress Ton had to bow before the eunuchs and submit 
to her fate of imprisonment in one of the deserted palaces. It 
looked as if nothing short of a change of the dynasty was capable 
of bringing about a new order of things, and a general uprising- 
was not slow in coining. 

Rebellion of the Yellow Turbans. — This rebellion was so 
named, because the yellow 7 turban was the distinguishing mark 
worn by the rebels. Their leader was an oculist named Chang 
Chio, a native of Chu Lu (now part of Southern Chihli) , who 
claimed a knowledge of the art of magic healing. He and his two 
brothers made dupes among all classes of society and people flock- 
ed to them by the thousand. As their number multiplied, the 
latent ambition of the brothers was aroused. Sedition was 
secretly preached, and the nation was soon ready. Chang 
Chio's original plan was to seize the emperor in the capital, and 
with this end in view he sent agents to cultivate the friendship of 
the eunuchs. When his plot was discovered and his agents were 
put to death, Chang Chio could not do otherwise than raise the 
standard of revolt. This was in the year 184. Before the 
year closed the rebellion had assumed an alarming magnitude. 
His followers, however, were mostly untrained recruits and they 
were as easily dispersed as they were gathered. In less than two 
years the two brothers of Chang Chio were both slain; 
and, so far as Chang Chio* was concerned, the rebellion 
was at an end. Small bands of brothers, nevertheless, continued 
to disturb local peace in different parts of China. This was the 
first instance in Chinese history, when the degenerated doctrines 
of Taoism were directly responsible for an anti-government 
uprising. 



* lie died soon after he raised the standard of rebellion. 



OUTLINES OY CHINESE HISTORY ( -)3 

First Contamination of Confucianism. 1 —- In this connec- 
tion, it is necessary to say something" as to the change 
Confucianism had undergone since the days of Chili Huang Ti. 
In the history of Confucianism, or Chinese literary classics (we 
can hardly separate the one from the other), the two Han 
Dynasties form but a single period. Numerous commentaries of 
the Confucian Classics were issued during this period, but the 
commentators were more or less under the influence of the Fang 
Su(^r±). (Taoist magicians). Their tone of speculation was 
entirely Taoist. Thus Taoist elements, foreign to Confucianism, 
became mingled with the teaching of the great Chinese sage. The 
Classics which contain their commentaries were largely written 
from memory by the learned scholars of the Former Han. They 
are known as "'Modern Literature (4*30." About the time of 
Wang Mang, however, some books, said to have been exhumed, 
were presented to the government. They contained a text 
slightly different from that of the " Modern Literature," and were 
called "Ancient Literature (# 30 ." Their authenticity, how- 
ever, is a disputed point even at the present day. After the 
appearance of the '"Ancient Literature," a movement was on foot 
to separate Taoism from Confucianism, with the result that by 
the time of Huan Ti, the former became an independent creed. 
In A.D. 165, the first Taoist Patriarch Oc&p), Chang Tao-ling 
(M si E£), was appointed to represent the faith, and his descendants 
still continue in that office. 

The Shuo Wen Chinese Script Explained. 

As regards Chinese literature, the most useful production of the 
age was the Shuo Wen (ift 30 by Hsu Shen (ft if ). This is the 
oldest dictionary in China, and contains some ten thousand charac- 
ters with notes. It affords a key for deciphering the Chinese 
writing of antiquity. To-day one-fifth of the characters contained 



; The second contamination took place during the Sung Dynast}- 



94 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

therein suffice for our every-day use. It would appear that literature 
reached its highest point under the Han Dynasties. 

Extermination of Eunuchs.- -Ling Ti died in A.D. 188, 
leaving two sons and a widow. The first born was raised to the 
throne with his mother acting as the regent. The cry for the down- 
fall of the eunuchs now became louder. Yuan Shao (3a 3&), a young 
officer of the imperial guards, formed a plan for their extermination. 
This he quietly communicated to Ho Chin (fast), brother of the 
empress dowager, who in turned told it to the regent. The latter 
objected, but the young officer was obstinate. He sent word to 
General Tung Cho (lt«|i),then at Ho Tung (M3£) (Southern 
Shensi), to come to the capital with all his troops. Tung Cho knew 
why he had been sent for, and saw a great opportunity for him to 
come to the front. He responded to the call willingly, but did not 
wish to be at the capital before there was bloodshed. He according- 
ly betrayed his friend to the eunuchs, and the latter at once seized 
Ho Chin and had him put to death. They, however, were unable 
to lay their hands on Yuan Shao, the young officer in question. On 
the contrary, the palace was broken into by his men and a general 
slaughter began. It is stated that many young men wearing no 
mustache were mistaken for eunuchs, and perished with them. At 
this juncture Tung Cho entered the capital at the head of a large 
force; and taking advantage of the condition of affairs, dethroned 
the emperor, murdered the empress dowager and raised his brother 
to the throne. This was Hsien Ti OR #) (188-220). With the 
dethronement of Fei Ti (Jg ifr), as the emperor was called, we may 
consider the Eastern Han Dynasty at an end. Hsien Ti was an 
emperor in name only; in fact he was but a prisoner in the hands of 
his captors, and on more than one occasion, became the bone of 
contention between rival generals. All this will be more fully 
related in the next chapter, since it led immediately to the founding 
of the Three Kingdoms. 



OUTLINES, OF CHINESE HISTORY 95 

The following table shows the age of Ho Ti and his successors 
w hen they came to the throne. 

Name Age Length of reign Name of regent 



Ho Ti m ft 


10 


89-105 


Empress Ton 'M 


Shang Ti ^ ft 


100 days 


106 




Teng n 


An Ti * $ * O 
Shun Ti m tf 




107-125 
126-144 




do. 

Yen m 


Ch'ung Ti tyft 


2 \ 


145 




Liang m 


Chih Ti* % ft 


8.. 


146 




do. 


Huan Ti* © ft 


15 x 


148-167 




do. 


Ling Ti* M ft 


12 


168-188 




Ton ft 


Fei Ti m * 


17 


189 




Ho H 













Emperors who were not the sons of Emperors. 



96 OUTLINES OF CHLNESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER XV 

THE THREE KINGDOMS 

Flight of Tung Cho to Chang An— What Tung Cho did 
immediately after his arrival at Lo Yang has been mentioned in the 
preceding pages. So far as the city was concerned, the presence of 
a strong army sufficed to silence the voice of resentment; but it was 
not so without. If Yuan Shao had made a mistake in inviting Tung 
Cho to come to the capital, the latter was no more sagacious when he 
permitted him to escape to Chi Chow (HM). Now, this Yuan Shao, 
it should be borne in mind, belonged to a very distinguished family. 
Owing to the prestige of a great name, he was at once hailed as leader 
by the provincial governors who refused to submit to Tung Cho's 
usurpation. They joined him with what forces they were able to 
gather at short notice, and were soon on the march lo Lo Yang. 
Seeing the peril he was now in, Tung Cho decided to remove the 
court to Chang An (-&&), a city more favorably situated from a 
military standpoint. He, however, took care to destroy the city of 
Lo Yang by fire, and to despoil the imperial and other sepulchers in 
the vicinity of such valuables as they contained. Wealthy inhabitants 
first saw their homes sacked by his soldiers and then were compelled 
to accompany him to the west. A great number of them perished 
on the way, either of hardships or at the hands of Tung Cho's 
soldiers. Thus was the capital, Lo Yang, left a mass of ruins. 

Dismemberment of the Han Empire. — To pursue an enemy 
through a deserted country is always a hazardous undertaking and 
none of the allies was anxious to run such a risk. Tung Cho, the 
common enemy, was now out of reach ; but he had left all the 
territory to the east and south of the famous Tung Kuan Pass to 
his enemies. The temptation was very great. Jealousy, too, had 
already begun to work among the allies and harmony among them 
was no longer possible. The cause that had brought them together 
was forgotten. Dismemberment of the empire followed, as shown 
by the following table. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 97 

Table Showing the Apportionments 



Name 



Territory 



Yuan Shao & & 

Clrao Ch'ao fi 

Yuan Shu ^ ffi 

Tao Cluen m M 

Liu Piao «| % 

Liu Yen Si H 

Kung Sun Tsan teVktft 

Kung Sun Tu & S jg 

Sun Chien ft £ 

Chang Lu $ © 



Chi Chow (& iH'l), Ching Chow (# JH),and 

Peng Chow (&M). 

Yen Chow (^ '111) and Yu Chow (m W) . 

Shou Chun (l£ #) 

Hsu Chow f& #1 

Chin Chow ^Tf iW 

I Chow & ffi 

Yu Chow ft W * 

Liao Tung ^ Hi 

Chang Sha Ms. & 

Han Chung $| cf» 



While the empire was being thus parceled out, Tung Cho did 
as he pleased in the new capital. Any one who had the courage to 
oppose his will was put to death with torture. There was no doubt 
that the imperial throne was his goal. Great efforts were made 
to fortify Mi Wu (IB SI), a town in the vicinity of Chang An, and to 
accumulate therein wealth and provisions. Here Tung Cho expected 
to spend his latter days in case his larger plans should fail, and he 
would not venture out of this stronghold without a strong escort. 
But his tyranny was such that before long he alienated the support 
of Lu Pu (£>fc), one of his best friends, who was at the time in 
command of his bodyguard. To his great surprise and dismay, it 
was this man that inflicted on him the fatal wound one morning as 
he was proceeding to see the emperor. His friends were now con- 
demned to die and they at once revolted. Hsien Ti, the unfortunate 
emperor, fell successively into the hands of the various rebels, until, 
with great difficulty, he escaped into the neighborhood of Lo Yang. 
Here he met his fate by falling into the hands of Ch'ao Ch'ao (W$l), 
the founder of the Wei ($t) Kingdom, from whose grasp he never 
escaped. 



*Later annexed bv Yuan Shao. 



98 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Beginnings of the Three Kingdoms.— Ch'ao Ch'ao first rose 
to fame by taking part in punishing the Yellow Turbans, and later by 
joining in the popular expedition against Tung Cho. By the 
time he met Hsien Ti, he had established himself in Y^en Chow and 
Yu Chow, and was watching eagerly for an opportunity to rise and 
destroy the power of his rivals. For a time it looked as if the 
unfortunate emperor could have no better friend than Ch'ao Ch'ao- 
The truth was the latter needed him. With the emperor a prisoner 
in his hands, he could claim a semblance of authority for every thing- 
he did, and was ready to march with his well-disciplined troops 
against any who refused to submit to this mere shadow of royal 
power. 

Under this new order of things Ch'ao Ch'ao found it com- 
paratively easy to sweep the country, watered by the Y'ellow River, 
free from his rivals, including YYian Shao, the most powerful of 
them all. 

Meanwhile Hsien Ti had found out the true character of his 
captor. With his own blood he wrote the death warrant of Ch'ao 
Ch'ao, but for a long time could find no one faithful enough or 
powerful enough to undertake its execution. At last the man was 
found in the person of Tung Cheng (tt7l0. A plan was decided 
upon between him and his friends for bringing about the downfall 
of the powerful minister; but the information leaked out and Tung 
Cheng, his sister, the favorite concubine of the emperor, and others 
were ruthlessly put to death. Ch'ao Ch'ao had evidently decided 
that it must be the throne of a united China that he would take or 
none. So long as there were rivals he had need of the emperor and 
would not permit him to die. He should, however, be closely 
watched, and, with this end in view, he was made to take to wife 
Ch'ao Ch'ao's own daughter. 

One of the men who espoused the cause of the emperor was 
Liu Pei (SiJH), the founder of the Kingdom of Szu (§), and a 
man of imperial lineage. Like Ch'ao Ch'ao, his public career began 
at the time of the Yellow Turban Rebellion; but fortune had been 
against him. Rallying at one time with one party and then with 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 99 

another, he had been hunted from place to place until he came to 
seek protection from Ch'ao Ch'ao; but when his connection with 
the Tung- Cheng affair became known he could no longer remain in 
Wei. In the Yangtze valley, there then existed two powerful 
governors, Liu Piao, governor of Chin Chow, and Sun Oman (M. >H), 
governor of Tung Wu CM ^) ; the latter being the second son of Sun 
Chien and founder of the Kingdom of Wu. It was now to Chin 
Chow that Liu Pei fled. 

Even there he found but temporary peace. Liu Piao died 
soon after his arrival, and the government of Chin Chow fell to 
Liu Ts'ung (fij^), his second son. The latter, on the approach of 
Ch'ao Ch'ao, gave in his submission, thus leaving Liu Pei to his own 
resources. His forces were completely routed at Chang Pan (^^), 
and he fled to Tung Wu, with whose king or governor. Sun Oman, 
he entered into a defensive alliance, for even Tung Wu, protected 
by the Great River (r^fr), was now threatened with an invasion 
from the Xorth. 

Battle of Chi Pi.— The forces of Ch'ao Ch'ao numbered no 
less than 400,000 men. but most of them knew nothing about marine 
warfare. Between them and the country they were now called upon 
to subdue, was the great Yangtze River. To procure ships was 
easy; but to man them, an entirely different problem which Ch'ao 
Ch'ao had overlooked. Having secured a large fleet at Chin Chow, 
he sailed down the river with his immense force. At Chi Pi, Sun 
Oman had stationed a small fleet ready to dispute the passage of 
the river at any moment. If numerical superiority was with the 
invader, it was more than balanced by better seamanship on the part 
of the invaded. 

In the battle that ensued, the following ruse was resorted to by 
Chou Ju (M *&), the commander of Tung Wu's fleet. One of his 
officers feigned submission by promising to surrender to Ch'ao Ch'ao 
with ten vessels full of rice and other provisions. It was now 
midwinter (A.D. 208). In the dead of night the ten vessels 
appeared; but instead of rice and other provisions their contents 



100 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

consisted of combustible material. At a short distance from the 
Fleet of Ch'ao Ch'ao, those on board set lire to them. Driven by the 
wind, the ten vessels ran into the immense fleet then at anchor and 
everything that came in contact with them was soon on fire. At 
this juncture, the fleet of Tung Wu bore down upon the enemy, and 
between the fire and the water, the flow r er of Ch'ao Ch'ao's army 
perished. With great difficulty Ch'ao Ch'ao reached the land where 
he fared as badly as on the water. In the course of his retreat, he 
and the remnant of his men fell into so many ambuscades that his 
retinue numbered less than one hundred when he reached Hsu 
Chang (W Jl), which was then his home and the seat of government. 
This battle not only established the boundary between Wei and W T u 
but gave rise to a third kingdom. 

The Kingdom of Szu. — The friendship between Liu Pei and 
Sun Chuan was further cemented by the marriage of the former to 
the latter 's sister. Sun Chuan also gave his brother-in-law a por- 
tion of the vast territory, known as Chin Chow, for a home. Liu Pei 
had long cast a covetous eye over Szu, the land to the west of Chin 
Chow, and then in weak hands. Having been checked in the south, 
Ch'ao Ch'ao sought to extend his boundary in the west. When his 
soldiers overran Plan Chung, Liu Chang (ill &), governor of I-chow 
(^ 'J'l'D (Szu), became alarmed and sent messengers to implore help 
from his kinsman, Liu Pei. To this invitation, the latter gladly 
responded with a large army, which he himself led into the 
territory he had so long desired to possess. He proved to be the 
worst enemy Liu Chang could have, and had soon made the latter 
resign to him all the territory which was in need of a defender. By 
a scries of subsequent wars, Han Chung was added to the Kingdom 
of Szu. Thus was Szu, the third kingdom both in point of time and 
with respect to size, founded. 

Fall of Chin Chow.— To secure a state of equilibrium among 
the three Kingdoms, an alliance between the two smaller states was 
an absolute necessity. Soon after the conquest of Han Chung, 
instructions were sent by Liu Pei to Kuan Yu (MW), commandant 
of the garrison at Chin Chow, to attack the city of Hsiang Yang 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



101 



(m Pi) on the border of the kingdom of Wei. This expedition 
necessarily weakened the garrison to a considerable extent. Besides, 
through the haughtiness of Kuan Yu, the relations between Wu and 
Szu had not been very eordial of late. All this was no secret to 
Ch'ao Ch'ao. Intriguers were busy and succeeded in detaching Sun 
Oman from his brother-in-law. While Kuan Yu was on the point 




Tomb of 14 u Pei 

of taking Hsiang Yang, news arrived of the fall of Chin Chow into 
the hands of Lu Meng (^Sl), a Tung Wu general. The ranks 
of Kuan Yu began to thin, and those who remained faithful to their 
commander were annihilated between two powerful armies, one sent 
by Ch'ao Ch'ao to the rescue of the city, and the other by Sun 
Chuan to cut off the retreat of the haughty general. Kuan Yu was 
taken prisoner by the Tung Wu soldiers, beheaded and his head 
sent to Ch'ao Ch'ao (219). Owing to his prowess in battle, Kuan 
Yu has, since A.D. 1594, been deified as the Chinese god of war, or 
Military Sage. To-day he is worshipped all over China, his shrine 
being second in importance only to that of Confucius, the Greatest 
Chinese Sage. 



102 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Hostilities Break out Between Wu and Szu. — In the fol- 
lowing year (220), Ch'ao Ch'ao died, leaving his son Ch'ao P'ei (W 
2?) to accomplish what the old man had been unwilling to do, viz., 
the dethronement of the emperor. He made Hsien Ti abdicate the 
throne in his favor, thus establishing a dangerous precedent which 
was often repeated during the next two or three centuries. When 
the news reached Chengtu ('$ fP), the capital of Szu, Liu Pei did 
not hesitate to assume the imperial title himself. The question that 
now presented itself, was whether he should avenge the death of 
the emperor or that of Kuan Yu. His generals wanted him to take 
the former course, but this he absolutely refused to do. With an 
army of 700,000 men, he set out from Chengtu to invade the 
Kingdom of Wu; but met with defeat at I-ling (M$k). It was 
with great difficulty that he managed to escape into the rampart of 
Pei Ti Cheng (fi *$), where he died of grief in A.D. 222. Five 
years later, Sun Chuan also took upon himself the imperial honor. 

Chu Ko-liang. — Chu Ko-liang (If M 'M) was perhaps the most 
famous character of the period that we have now reached. He was 
a native of Yangtu (|% U), but passed much of his early life in Nan 
Yang (it It) within the district of Liu Piao. In A.D. 207, Liu Pei, 
then an unimportant adventurer, made three visits to the reed-hut 
(^ E) where this man was leading a life of retirement. It was not 
until the third visit that Iylu Pei w r as granted an interview ; and so 
astounded was he at Chu Ko-liang 's wide knowledge of the empire 
and the needs of the time, that he exclaimed on securing a promise 
of his services that he felt the joy of a fish regaining its native 
element. To him Liu Pei owed the Kingdom of Szu, and had he 
listened to him he would not have met the defeat that we have just 
mentioned. On his deathbed Liu Pei sent for him and confided 
to him Iyiu Ch'an (giJH), his degenerate son and successor. The 
policy of this minister was peace with Wu and war with Wei, and 
he held to this during his administration. Before he could lead 
an army against Wei, however, his attention was drawn to the 
activities of the border tribes who lived in what is now the Yunnan 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



103 



province. It was a custom among the Yunnanese at that time to 
offer human sacrifices to their god, which was only discontinued at 
the instance of Ghu Ko-liang, who told them to use oread made to 
resemble a human head. This is commonly believed to have been 
the beginning of the Chinese bread called Man-tou, or Barbarian's 
head (SJag). The place was so unhealthy that Chu Ko-liang, after 




Chu Ko-liang's Temple 

a successful campaign, had to content himself with the submission 
of the chieftain, instead of annexing the territory. Between 228 
and 234, he conducted several expeditions against Wei ; but owing 
to the difficulties encountered in the matter of transportation, and 
since it was almost impossible to induce Sz Ma I (oj H SB), the 
Wei general, to fight a pitched battle, he died in his camp on the 
bank of the Wei (iff) River in 234, without accomplishing his end. 
In 1724, his tablet was placed in Confucius' temple. In the 
course of one of these campaigns, he is said to have invented a 
device, commonly called "Wooden Oxen (tJc ^) and Running- 
Horses ($g J§)," as a means of transport. What the device was, no 
one now knows. 



104 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Overthrow of Szu. — With the death of Chu Ko-liang fortune 
began to desert the Kingdom of Szu. Chiang Wei (H iH), the general 
who succeeded to the powers of Chu Ko-liang. continued the struggle 
for a few- years, but was not able to achieve anything worth 
mentioning. Meanwhile Liu Ch'an became a tool of his favorite 
eunuch, and the country was on the verge of a civil broil, when two 
armies invaded it from the north. One army detained Chiang Wei 
in Han Chung, while the other in command of Teng Ai (fR 3t) was 
directed to Chengtu through a dangerous pass in the Ying Ping- 
ed ¥) Range. For twenty days or more the Wei general and 
his men crawled along the edges of precipices, scaled high rocks by 
means of ropes, and endured unparalleled hardship. Upon their 
arrival at Chengtu, however, their toils were amply rewarded. Not 
only was the city without defenders, but Liu Ch'an also awaited 
their arrival with an empty coffin before him, an unmistakable sign 
of submission (263). He was afterwards given the title of 
"Duke of Pleasure" (& *M &) by Sz Ma Yen (f],|f), the first 
emperor of the house of Tsin (^). It was a most befitting title for 
him in view of the life he had led in Chengtu. 

Extinction of the Ruling House of Wei. — After the death 
of Chu Ko-liang, Wei had nothing to fear from Szu. So she sent 
her best general, Sz Ma I, to subdue the tribes in Liao Tung. His 
success raised him on his return to the position of prime minister. 
Here history repeats itself. What Ch'ao Ch'ao had done with 
Hsien Ti two decades before was now repeated by Sz Ma I and 
his sons, Sz Ma Sz (W] |& W) and Sz Ma Chao (f] M Kg), who follow- 
ed the footsteps of their father. Although Wei had five more 
emperors, the power remained in the house of Sz Ma I, after the 
death of Ch'ao P'ei. Sz Ma Yen, son of Sz Ma Chao, caused Hsiian 
Ti (£ #), the last emperor of the line of Ch'ao Ch'ao to abdicate in 
his favor, thereby establishing a new dynasty which he called Tsin 
(*) (A.D. 264). 

The Kingdom of Wu, — So far little has been said about the 
Kingdom of Wu. As a matter of fact, she took very little part in 
the affairs of the other two kingdoms. Owing to her geographical 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



105 



position and the policy of her rulers, her wars, with one or two 
exceptions, were defensive in character. That she was ahle to 
maintain her existence after the downfall of Wei and Szu was a 
fact due entirely to her location. She had no border tribes to con- 
tend with, and had her ruler taken timely warning after the fall of 
her ally, the Kingdom of Szu, she might have existed longer. In 
fact, Sz Ma Yen, the first emperor of Tsin, would never have thought 
of conquering the territory south of the Yangtze if he had not been 
forced to do so by his generals. He had several times refused 
permission to his general, Yang Hu (^ jfi), to lead an army across 




Pictorial Art, Tsin Dynasty 



106 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

the river. The honor of adding this part of China to the Tsin 
empire belongs to Tu Yn (fctgi), the successor of Yang Hu. Sun 
Hao (M flp), the last emperor of Wu, was by no means unlike Liu 
Ch'an in private life; and, like him, he opened the gates to the first 
general that appeared with an invading force before Chien Yeh (MM), 
the present city of Nanking, which was then the capital of the Wu 
Kingdom. Before this, the capital was Wuchang. It was the first 
time that Nanking and Wuchang rose to the rank of important 
cities in China. Thus perished in 280, the kingdom founded by Sun 
Chuan, after an existence of fifty-nine years, dating from the time of 
his assumption of the imperial title. 

In this connection it is of interest to note that it was during the 
reign of Sun Hao (264-277) that tea was for the first time used 
by Chinese of the South. With Sun Hao it took the place of wine; 
but its use as a common beverage — that is in the same way as it is 
served to-day — was not of much later date. In the annals of the 
Tsin Dynasty (265-313), we read of a man named Wang Meng 
(3£S) who was in the habit of offering tea to his friends who came 
to visit him. Many of them who disliked the drink would excuse 
themselves on the ground that it was a day on which water would 
bring them bad luck OK BS) ; for it was then an age of superstition 
and the theory of the influence of the Five Elements (Kfr^c) 
constituted the common belief of the people. 

The first pagoda in China, according to the same authority, was 
constructed in A.D. 249-250 bv Sun Chuan. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 107 



CHAPTER XVI 
THE PERIOD OF DARKNESS 

The Period. — We are now entering upon a period of a little 
more than three hundred years which forms the darkest part of 
Chinese history. Heavy sleep is necessary after days of indulgence. 
With the closing scenes of the Three Kingdoms, China's days of 
indulgence had come to an end. It was now the turn of the bar- 
barians — the same barbarian tribes that had for centuries been reduced 
to submission and serfdom — to gain the upper hand in China and 
crowd the Chinese beyond the Yangtze. From A.D. 317 to 581 
China was divided between the barbarians in the North and the 
Chinese in the South. Chinese historians prefer to call the first 
epoch (317-420) a continuation of the Tsin Dynasty, thus making 
the division to begin with the later date. Since the general features 
of the two epochs are practically identical, we will group them — the 
Tsin Dynasty and the epoch of division between the North and the 
South — together, under the general title of The Period of Darkness. 

During this period China, or more particularly the region 
between the Yellow and the Yangtze Rivers, was the scene of con- 
stant eruptions and wars. Every conquest was marked by fearful 
atrocities; every accession of a new emperor or king was preceded 
by intrigues and at times by many murders. Such a dark age would 
seem to be uninstructive and of little general interest. Nevertheless 
it was a time during which Buddhism gained unparalleled success in 
China. Besides, the mingling of blood which followed the barbarian 
supremacy in the North, in no small degree, accounts for the 
difference in language, appearance, and culture, still noticeable 
among the Chinese of different provinces at the present day. 

Barbarian Settlements in China. — During the Han Dynas- 
ties, there was scarcely a border tribe that did not feel the weight of 
Chinese dominion. As a rule, the conquered were transferred from 
points along the frontier to more inland places. Thus the Aery 



10* 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



point for which the barbarian tribes had for ages been strenuously 
lighting, viz., to gain a foothold in China, was now readily conceded 
to them. The result was that the Hsiung-nu element dominated 
what is now Shansi province; the Tibetan tribes (Ti (£) and Chiang 
(SB)) the Kansu and Szechuan provinces; and the Tungustic Tribes 
(Hsien-pei (U *h) and Chieh (W) the Chihli province; all retaining 
their own customs as well as their tribal forms of government. It 
required no prophet to foresee that as soon as the restraining hand 
slackened, these barbarian hordes would make trouble. On more 
than one occasion was Sz Ma Yen reminded of the coming danger, 

but nothing was done. The harem 
ladies of Tung Wu had been 
added to his own and the reunion 
of the empire seemed complete. 
The emperor had something to 
keep him busy. As to what might 
happen in the future, his successors 
must look out for that. 



hEfttyy 


1 


fij33fc-ii£3 




Seals given to Hsiung-nu and Hsien-pei 
Tsin D3-nasty 



Successors of Sz Ma Yen. — His successors, however, were 
not capable of looking out for themselves. The death of Sz Ma 
Yen in A.D. 290 left his throne to his idiotic son, Hui Ti (Mfc). 
Worse still, this imbecile monarch had a queen whose ambitions 
knew no bound, and whose hands had but recently been stained with 
the blood of many of her husband's concubines. To gain power, 
the Empress Chili (%), for this was her name, set one prince against 
another, until she became a terror in the court of To Yang. Even 
the step-mother of Hui Ti and the heir-apparent (by a palace lady) 
perished at her hands. Every item that usually appears in the list 
of royal crimes could with justice be charged against her. At last 
a rebellion broke out and she paid the penalty with her life. This 
was called the Rebellion of the Eight Princes from the number that 
took part in it, though some of them were fighting on the side of 
the queen. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 109 

The next emperor, Huai Ti (11^), brother of Hui Ti, was a 
better man than his predecessor, but the condition of the empire had 
reached a state beyond his repair. Under the feudal system 
inaugurated by his father, Sz Ala Yen, the empire was virtually 
dependent upon the feudal princes for defence, but these had wasted 
the energy of the nation for their own purposes. Just at this juncture 
a formidable foe appeared at the door, and allowed no time for 
reconstruction. After a reign of six years, Huai Ti was captured 
by the barbarians and was led into Ping Y r ang (^ H), the capital of 
the Kingdom of Han. 

Kingdom of Han. — This was the kingdom set up by the 
Hsiung-nu population in Shansi. They had been divided by Ch'ao 
Ch'ao into five tribes, each governed by a chieftain, subject to the 
power of the Chinese resident at Ping Yang. These chieftains all 
adopted the surname of Liu, thus claiming descent from the Han 
emperors through those princesses that had been given in marriage 
to their ancestors. One of these chieftains, Liu Yiian (fij $9), was a 
man of commanding presence and exceptional abilities in addition 
to being a Chinese scholar. With the consent of his colleagues, he 
assumed the tittle of Hsien-yu and made Tso Kuo Cheng (£ ® ^) 
his capital. In 308 he changed his title to Huang Ti and removed 
his court to Ping Y^ang. His son, Lieh TVung OJSK), not only 
inherited his father's throne but also his war with the Tsin 
emperor. After a series of battles, his generals, Liu Y^ao (fij Bf) 
and Shih Le (T\Wi), appeared before the city of Lo Yang. No 
rescue came from the feudal lords, and the city was taken. 

When the news of the capture of Huai Ti reached Chang 
An (^3c), his nephew. Prince of Ch'in (ife), immediately assumed 
the imperial title. In the year following, he opened the gates of 
Chang An and submitted to Liu Y r ao. Thus in two years Liu 
Ts'ung had captured two Chinese emperors, one of whom was made 
to .^erve him at the table while the other held his imperial umbrella, 
before they were finally put to death. 

Dismemberment of North China.— The glory of the Han 
empire did not last lung. After the death of Liu Ts'ung 



110 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



his generals, Liu Yao and Shih L,e, divided the kingdom between them, 
the former receiving all territory to the west of Lo Yang and the 
latter all to the east of it. These were known as anterior (bij) and 
posterior ($£) Chao (^) respectively. In course of time the latter 
absorbed the former. Posterior Chao itself was then split up into 
small kingdoms which were at length united by Fu Chien (^ HE) of 
the Former Ch'in (jiij^). This colossus collapsed in turn, and 
the fragments into which it was broken maintained a sort of 
independence until they were absorbed by the Toba Tartars. In 
short, North China within the space of 135 years witnessed the rise 
and fall of no less than sixteen kingdoms. The principal actors in 
this great drama belonged to five subdivisions of the Tartar race; 
hence we speak of this event as " The Middle Kingdom in the 
hands of Five Huns." Such are the outlines of the political 
history of the Northern Empire during the time the house of Eastern 
Tsin maintained a shadow of authority in the South. 






Diagram showing the names and fortunes of the 
Northern Kingdoms 



Hanc 



Former Chao Posterior Chao^ 

Posterior Chao 



Pormer^Chiu'- Former Liang b Former Yena 

F^ormer'Uhine 



West North South South Posterior Posterior Posterior Posterior 
Liangb Liang? Lianga Chin Liang? Chin Wei Yen* 



N. Liang 



N. Yena S- Yena 




o. Hsieu pei or Tuugustic 
Tribes 

b. Chinese 

c. Hsiung-nu 

d. Chieli 

e ; J' ( Tihetkn Tribes 

f- °" e " * Norffi Wei Sun^ 

Auother Kingdom Chen Flan existed in Szechuen 308- - Conquered by Eastern Tsin. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 111 

Eastern Tsin. — When the last representative of the line of 

Sz Ma I was led captive into Shansi, a prince of the blood, whose 
fief included what is now the city of Nanking-, afterwards known as 
Yuan Ti (jc ifr), declared himself Emperor and made that city the 
capital of the South. Neither he nor his successors were able to 
er the land from the barbarians, although the condition of 



recov 



s j 



affairs in the North during most of the time was such as to invite 
interference. This was due to the fact that Eastern Tsin had 
troubles of her own and needed all the available troops to restore 
order within her own borders, the formidable rebellions of 322 
(by Wang Tun 3E Wl) and 328 (by Su Chun Wk'*$t) having consider- 
ably weakened her. On more than one occasion was the city of 
Wuchang, the rendezvous of the empire, the centre of the storm. 

For obvious reason the northern tribes were also unable to 
cause the Chinese much trouble except on one occasion in the year 
384. 

Battle of the Fei. — At this time, the kingdom of Former 
Chin was in the zenith of her power. Full Chien, her king, not 
only had subdued the whole of North China but had also extended 
his dominion over some sixty-two states in Turkestan in the west 
and Corea in the east. Against the advice of his best generals, in 384, 
he led 600,000 infantry and 270,000 cavalry into Eastern Tsin. In 
reply to a remark on the natural barrier afforded by the Yangtze, he 
said contemptuously that if each of his cavalry men should only drop 
his riding whip into it, the army would be able to cross it dry shod. 
Upon receipt of the news that his flying column had captured the 
city of Shou Yang (H &§)> he hurried forward with only 8,000 
men in order to be in the front. The opposing army numbered but 
80,000 men. It was, therefore, to the interest of the Chinese that 
they should induce the enemy to give battle before the arrival of his 
main force, and in this they were successful. The armies met on 
the banks of the Fei (U), where Fuh Chien was so badly defeated 
that he was not able to collect his scattered forces. Thev continued 



112 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

their flight until they reached their own country. This battle 
reaffirmed the boundary between the North and the South and 
ultimately led to the partition of Full Chien's kingdom. 

Epoch of Division between the North and the South.— 

Upon the ruins of Former Chin, as many as eight separate kingdoms 
sprang up. One of them, North Wei, founded by the Toba 
Tartars in 386, soon began such a career of conquests that by 445 
the Northern Empire was restored to the original boundaries of 
Former Chin. In the South, the house of Eastern Chin had, some 
25 years before, been superseded by the house of Sung. Thus there 
was one empire in the North with its capital at Lo Yang, and 
another in the South with its capital at Nanking. 

The North 

Military Fame of the Toba Tartars.— In point of strength, 
the Northern Empire was by far the superior. The Toba Tartars 
belonged to the Hsien-pei family who had come into possession of the 
country formerly belonging to the Northern Hsiung-nu. It would 
seem that this part of Mongolia was inexhaustible as a producer of 
warlike hordes ; for as soon as it was vacated by the Hsien-pei, it 
became the home of the jou Jan {§& B) and Kao Ch'e (^5 ^). The 
latter caused their kindred in the South no less trouble than the Hsien- 
pei had given the Chinese. The reign of Tai Wu Ti (424-452) 
constituted the brightest period in the military annals of the Wei 
Empire. In one engagement he drove his more barbarous brethren 
into the wildness of the Yen Jan ($e B) Mountain, and took as many 
as 1,000,000 prisoners. Tribute began to pour into his court at 
Ping Cheng (^ $), which was then the capital of the Empire, from 
such distant states as Corea and Turkestan. 

The Toba Tartars Became Chinese.— Since these Tartars 
had very little to impart in the way of civilization they were ready 
to accept what the conquered had to offer. Within the space of a 
hundred years, their traits were entirely changed through their 
contact with the superior civilization of the Chinese. This result 
may be attributed to the efforts of one of their princes, Hsiao Wn 
Ti f#^; ft), who reigned between A.D. 471 and 499. It was he who 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 113 

moved the capital from Ping Cheng to Lo Yang, the centre of Chinese 
civilization. Laws were then proclaimed making it an offence either 
to wear the Tartar costume or to speak the Tartar tongue. The 
family name, Toha (meaning origin) was changed to Yuan (7c), a 
Chinese character of the same import. The names of other families 
were likewise changed by order of the emperor. It was the Chinese 
ceremonials and government that the court adopted. To encourage 
intermarriage, it- was decreed that the Chinese wife of a prince 
should take precedence of his Tartar wife or wives, irrespective of 
the time of marriage. Such changes w r ere naturally considered 
unjust and conspiracies against the authority of the emperor were 
numerous. 

There is much truth in the statement that " China is a great 
sea that salts all the water that flows into it." While the Tartars 
made every effort to imitate the Chinese, the latter were no less 
diligent in picking up the Hsien-pei tongue. This is evidenced by 
the number of books published to aid in the study of that language. 
The names of many of these publications have been preserved in the 
annals of the Sung Dynasty. 

Break-up of North Wei. — In 535 North Wei was divided 
into two parts, the Western and the Eastern. The former existed 
for 17 years and the latter 10, when they were succeeded respectively 
by North Chou (ft M) and North Ch'i (#3¥). 'North Ch'i had rive 
rulers, whose reigns aggregated twenty-eight years ; and then it w r as 
added to North Chou, though it had previously lost a portion of its 
territory to the Southern Empire, which, at this time, was called 
Ch'en (1^). North Chou was taken in 581 by its powerful minister 
Yang Chien (% Jg) , who seven years later conquered Ch'en. Now 
it was that China was restored to the Chinese, and came again 
under the rule of one man. 

The South 

Sung. — The Sung Dynasty was founded by Liu Yu (IHft), a 
general of the Eastern Tsin, who had previously gained popularity 
through his successful campaigns against the Tartars. Upon becoming 



114 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

emperor, he took the title of Wu Ti (^ tfr) and reigned three years. 
His son, Shao Ti, was dethroned and murdered after a reign of one 
year. Wen Ti (;£ ifr) . the next occupant of the throne, struggled 
with the Northern Power for the conquest of Honan. At one time, 
he took possession of the land he coveted, but was soon obliged to 
relinquish it. His second attempt ten years later resulted in an 
invasion of his own country by the Toba Tartars, who came as 
far south as Kna Pu (JR. J£), and committed many savage atrocities. 
Wen Ti could see the tents of the Tartars on the opposite bank of 
the Yangtze from the walls of Nanking. Owing to lack of 
provisions, the invaders, however, withdrew without making 
an attempt to take the city. 

Wen Ti was murdered by his son, who, in turn, was murdered 
by his brother. The next two emperors Ming Ti (W #) (465-473) 
and Tsang Yii Wang (^ fg 3E.) (473-476) were cruel and blood- 
thirsty, while the last two, being adopted children, held but nominal 
sway over the country. The dynasty with its eight rulers lasted 59 
vears and ended thus miserably after a series of unwonted crimes. 

Ch'i.— (A.D. 479-502). Su Tao Cheng (M *I «), the founder 
of the Ch'i (^) Dynasty, was a general who rose to fame by his 
wars with Wei. In 479, he forced Shun Ti (M #), the last ruler of 
the house of Liu Sung (i5^), to abdicate in his favor. Assuming 
the dynastic title of Kao Ti (^ ifr), he reigned but four years, and 
was followed by six rulers most of whom died in quick succession 
by violence. 

Liang. — (A.D. 502-557). This was the dynasty founded by 
Su Yen (Hff), who obtained the throne as usual in those days by 
forcing his weak sovereign to abdicate and then killing him. 
During his reign of forty-eight years the South enjoyed an interval 
of comparative prosperity and peace. 

His reign was an important epoch in the history of Chinese 
Buddhism, but this will be related elsewhere. In connection with a 
military plan, a dam was built in his reign across the Han (91) 
River with a view to inundating the city of Hsiang Yang, which 
guarded the entrance into the Wei Empire. The dam when 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 115 

completed was three miles long, 500 feet high, 1,445 feet wide at 
the base, and 450 feet wide at the top. It, however, failed to bring 
about the desired effect. On the contrary, the accumulated waters 
breaking through the dam carried away fifteen thousand of the 
Liang soldiers. 

Towards the close of the reign of Liang Wu Ti, the dynastic 
title of Su Yen. a formidable rebellion broke out, headed by Hon 
Chin (Hi!:), who had recently deserted Eastern Wei, and sought 
safety at the court at Nanking. This rebellion resulted in the 
division of the Liang Empire into the Posterior Liang (^ ^) and 
Ch'en ($l). The former, however, being only a vassal state of 
Western Wei, is hardly worthy of our attention. 

Ch'en. — (A.D. 557-587). Ch'en maintained its independence 
in Nanking, and Ch'en Pa-hsien ($LMJt), its founder, also took the 
title Wu Ti. So far as the means that he employed in obtaining the 
throne were concerned he was not unlike the Wu Ti of the preceding- 
dynasty ; but he ruled only three years. Hsiian Ti (569-582) wrested 
several districts from North Ch'i, but in his encounter with North 
Chou he was badly defeated. His son, Hou Chu (f& ±), though a 
good poet ; was by no means fit to rule a nation. He squandered 
the public money in the building of fine palaces to please the fancy of 
his harem ladies, many of whom were poetesses. His literary taste 
was such that state affairs were entirely neglected. On the fall of 
Nanking, in the emperor's department were found a number of 
unopened despatches which had come from his generals reporting 
the movements of the invader. 

The fall of Ch'en brings us to the close of the period of 
Darkness, and now it remains for us briefly to consider the spread 
of Buddhism, its cause and effects, in the next chapter. 



Ill) 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER XVII 

THE SPREAD OF BUDDHISM 

Influences Favorable to Buddhism. — With the rise of the 
Tsin Dynasty, the tide of Confucianism, which had reached its high 
water mark through the efforts of the Han writers, began to ebb. 
It was the doctrine of Lao Tze (5g ^), as ably expounded by Chuang 
Tze (#£ =£), rather than Confucianism, that was now gaining the 
public favor. Learned men began to attack openly the Confucian 
system of morality, condemning it as one well calculated to fetter 
the human intellect. " The highest virtue,' 1 says Lao Tze, " does 
nothing and consequently does not trust to or rest on any action. 
Virtue of an inferior kind anxiously acts and trusts to action." So 
long as Confucianism was based upon action, it was no virtue; and 
all the moral restraints it had imposed upon society were open to 
criticism. Such were the views of men who have been nicknamed 
" Purity Debaters " (fit Kp- They devoted their time to the abstruse 
" Purity "of Lao Tze, rather than to the ideas of Confucianism. 




•*■■**■ 



Carved pedestal of Buddhist image. Northern Wei Eynasty. (" Chinese Art ") 

After the rise of the Tartar Tribes in the North, these men 
flocked into the South, and their views soon spread through the 
country like an epidemic. This accounts for the absence of classical 
schools during the Eastern Tsin. To the " Purity Debaters," 
Buddhism naturally f m afforded more food for deliberation than 
Taoism, and they were not slow in placing their literary genius at the 
disposal of the foreign faith. The popularity of seme of the Bud- 
dhist writings is due to the literary finish received from these men. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 117 

In the North where the " epidemic " was less severe, the Con- 
fucian classics continued to hold their own ground; but that region 
was continuously under the rule of Tartars who with few exceptions 
were thorough Buddhists. 

Influx of Foreign Monks. — Ever since the introduction of 
Buddhism into China by Ming Ti, there had been a large influx of 
foreign monks through the two Great Routes. In 335 a decree was 
issued by the Prince of Chao (S j£), at the instance of Buddhojanga 
($ III 8t). removing all obstacles that had been placed in the way of a 
Chinese subject desiring to become a Sramana ($? Fl). This was the 
first time the people of China were suffered to enter the Buddhist 
priesthood, and it is recorded that large monasteries began to be 
established in North China, and that nine-tenths of the common people 
followed the foreign faith. The next Indian monk of importance, 
Kumarajiva (fti^Hfr), visited China in A.U. 405. He was 
brought from Kau-tzi (MM), a kingdom in Nan Lu. This state 
was invaded by the King of Tsin UjfeM), who gave his general in- 
structions not to come home without this Indian whose fame had 
preceded him. After his arrival at Chang An, the work of editing 
and revising the Chinese translations of the Sufcras US) was assigned 
to him. He also wrote a Shastra (t&) on Reality and Appearance 
and translated the Diamond Sutra (i: ffl\ £S), which has done more to 
popularize Buddhism with the educated classes than all the other 
material put together. 

Buddhidharma (i£B£), who reached Canton by sea during the 
reign of Liang Wu Ti, deserves special notice. He was the sixty- 
second patriarch of India and the first in China. He discouraged 
the use of books, claiming that the attainment of Buddhahood was 
entirely the work of the mind. Not being satisfied with the result of 
his interview with Liang Wu Ti, he went to Lo Yang, where he is 
said to have sat with his face set towards a wall for nine years. 

After the Brahmanical persecution in the beginning of the sixtli 
century, more Indian monks sought China both as an asylum and 



118 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

as a field for their chosen work. Instead of confining themselves 
to literary work, they undertook to propagate their faith by 
preaching. 

Chinese Pilgrims. — While streams of Indian monks virtually 
deluged China, the road between Eastern Persia and Hsi Yueh had 
frequently been travelled by the Chinese. A succession of Chinese 
monks thus found their way into the land of Buddha, either to 
gather additional books, or to make pilgrimages to places of religious 
renown. Many of them, on their return to China, wrote accounts 
of what they had seen. The oldest report of this sort is the Account 
of Buddhist Kingdoms (ffi IH IE) by Fa Hsien (*£ M). This has been 
translated by Europeans and to it we owe much of our present 
knowledge of the lands therein described. Having travelled over- 
land to India, Fa Hsien, after an absence of 14 years, came home by 
sea. He embarked at Ceylon (Singhalse W ^ HI) and landed at 
some point on the Kaochow coast, in the year 414. While in India 
he made an effort to collect as many works of the "Great Develop- 
ment (ifcSH)" (Mahayana) as possible, for very little of this sect had 
hitherto been known. Most of the books that had been translated 
before his time, belonged to the "Small Development ('MH)," 
(Hinayana). This is what we may call Primitive Buddhism, while 
the "Great Development" represents later additions. The books of 
the latter school were composed, it is thought, in the reign of 
Kaiushka (SaK-feiS), (A.D. 15-45) in Kashmen at the fourth 
Council. After his return he was engaged in translation work with 
the aid of Palatsanga, a native of India. 

Eight years before the arrival of Buddhidharma in China. 
Sun Ylin ($£g) was sent to India by the Prince of Wei. He 
travelled to Candahar, stayed two years in Udyana and returned 
with 175 Buddhist works. He has also left us a narrative of his 
j ourney. 

Foreign Embassies to China — The rapid advancement of 
Buddhism in China was the cause that led to free intercourse be- 
tween China and the outside world. During the reign of Sung Wen 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 119 

Ti (5tc^t#) (424-453) several embassies from states in India reached 
China. In the annals of this dynasty have been preserved letters 
from the kings of Aratan, Jebabada, Ceylon and Kapilavasta, the 
last being the place of Buddha's birth. The object of these kings 
was to congratulate the Chinese emperor on the flourishing condition 
of Buddhism in his dominions, and to open up intercourse on the 
ground of a common religion. 

In the time of Liang Wu Ti, Corean envoys came to ask for the 
" Nirvana " and other Buddhist classics. 

Buddhist Prosperity under the Wei Dynasty. — The 

period of Buddhist prosperity under the Toba Dynasty commenced 
with the reign of Hsien Wen Ti (JfiR ;£#■), a thorough Buddhist 
(466-470). Prior to this reign, Taoism had obtained a temporary 
supremacy due to influence of IV ui Hao ($U£), Wen Cheng Ti's (3t 
jft -fir) chief adviser, who was a devoted Taoist. Buddhist literature 
was threatened with total destruction, and monks and nuns were to 
be put to death wherever found. It is questionable, however, 
whether or not these stern decrees were ever vigorously executed, 
for Hsien Wen Ti, then heir to the throne, was known to have had 
great influence with his father. At all events, whatever harm had 
been done to Buddhism during his father's reign was more than 
made good when he came into power. No expense was spared by 
him to promote Buddhism ; and one image alone, constructed in 
467, was forty-three feet high and required one hundred piculs of 
brass and six piculs of gold. 

Hsien Wen Ti was followed by rulers no less devoted to 
Buddhism than himself. In the reign of Hsiao Ming Ti (# W #) 
(516-527), there were 415 sets of Buddhist books, 30,000 temples, 
and more than 200,000 monks and nuns. The building of temples 
and pagodas and the making of images were greatly encouraged 
by his mother, the Empress Hu ($ B) . 

In this connection, it is interesting to observe that image making- 
seems to have been employed as a means of divination by the 
Tartars from times immemorial. Under the Wei Dynasty, no girl 



120 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

could become an empress unless she had cast a perfect image of 
Buddha. The same process of divination was always resorted to by 
men who had designs on the throne, and the failure in casting per- 
fect Buddhas saved the life of more than one emperor. 

Another peculiar custom of the Toba Tartars was their early 
marriage. This is evidenced by the fact that Hsien Wen Ti 
(JSffi 3C ^) was only seventeen years old when he resigned his throne 
in favor of his five-year-old son, Hsiao Wen Ti (#3t^), in order 
to devote his time to the study of Buddhism. A second case in 
point was that of a prince of North Ch'i (At W), who, when put to 
death at the age of fourteen, had five sons by different mothers. 
Though it is said that some of them were born shortly before and 
some shortly after his death. 

Buddhist Prosperity under Liang Wu Ti— -In the South, 
the reign of Liang Wu Ti (^^ -fr) formed an important era in the 
annals of Chinese Buddhism. To quote from his own words: 
" From my accession to the throne, I have been incessantly building 
temples, transcribing sacred books, and permitting new monks to 
take the vows." More than this he even forbade the weaving 
of figures of animals in silk. Not that it had anything to do with 
the life of an animal, but he thought that the cutting through 
these figures by tailors might lead people to treat animal life with 
less consideration. No animal was to be offered for sacrifice, but its 
place was to be taken by imitations made of bread. This emperor 
was so zealous a Buddhist that he gave himself up three times to 
become a monk in the T'ung T'ai Monastery (M # 3p) at Nanking; 
and each time large ransoms had to be paid by his courtiers before 
he would return home and resume the reins of government. Of 
Buddhist emperors there have been many, but in point of mad 
devotion Liang Wu Ti leads them all. 

Opposition by the Confucianists— -We must not suppose 
that Buddhism met with no opposition from the Confucianists. On 
the contrary, the opposition was strong; and, at times, it even 
amounted to persecutions. But whatever effect there was, it was but 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 121 

temporary. Buddhism had come into China to stay, and from the 
time of its admittance it grew side by side with Taoism and 
Confucianism. A part of a discussion, which took place in the court 
of Ch'i Wu Ti {^j&tfir), between a Confucianist and a Buddhist is 
worthy of reproduction here, as it illustrates the views of the 
Confucian scholars at that remote period in regard to the theory 
of retribution and the existence of the soul. 

On the first point,' the Confucianist says : — "Men are like flowers 
on trees ; they grow together and are bent and scattered by the breeze. 
Some fall upon curtains and carpets, and are like those whose lot is 
cast in palaces; while others drop among heaps of filth, and represent 
men who are born in humble life. Riches and poverty, therefore, 
can be accounted for without the doctrine of retribution." 

On the second point, his remark runs as follows : — 

" The soul is to the body what the sharpness is to the knife. 
The soul cannot exist without the body any more than the sharpness 
can remain without the knife." 

Influence of Buddhism upon Chinese Civilization — That 
pagodas, temples, etc., are built in China after a Hindoo pattern is a 
fact too well known to need repetition here; but it is not in Chinese 
architecture alone that traces of Hindoo influence are found. They 
are also found in Chinese arithmetic, astronomy, astrology, litera- 
ture, music, sculpture, painting, and, in fact, in almost every branch 
of Chinese art and science. The most important point students have 
to bear in mind is the extent to which Chinese civilization has been 
revolutionized since the coming of Buddhism. Modern writers are of 
the opinion that evidences of Greek elements are not wanting in the 
early Hindoo civilization. If this is true. Buddhism was also the 
agent that imported Greek culture into Qnna. Of all the changes that 
have resulted from the spread of Buddhism, those in connection with 
Chinese literature are of the most permanent value. They are what 
we may call the Chinese syllabic spelling and the system of Four 
Tones. 



122 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

The Chinese Syllabic Spelling. — This is a system of 
phonetic analysis introduced by those Hindoos engaged in translating 
Buddhist works into Chinese. For the first time the Chinese were 
given an alphabet and taught that each monosyllabic sound was 
divisible into parts. With the help of these Hindoos a table of 
thirty-six initial letters was formed on the model of the Sanskrit 
alphabet, and the vocal organs by which they were made were care- 
fully explained. Thus by means of two sets of representative 
characters, one for initials and another for the finals, a mode of 
spelling was provided. No foreign alphabet was required; the 
Chinese characters were made to answer the purpose. The use of 
this system soon became universal, and in fact it has been handed 
down lo us in the dictionaries and popular editions of the Chinese 
Classics issued subsequent to its invention. Owing, however, to the 
changes that our language has since undergone, this method of 
spelling, in some cases, fails to give the correct pronunciation of the 
character, especially in dialects which bear no resemblance to the old 
tongue. Still, the principle is useful and can be advantageously em- 
ployed in any dialect.* 

The System of Four Tones. — Shen Yo (vjt^j), the Historian 
of the Tsin, Liusung, and Ch'i dynasties, is said to have been the 
author of this system. In his autobiography, he said : " The poets 
of old, during the past thousands of years, never hit upon this plan. 
I alone discovered its advantage." Inasmuch as the discovery seems 
to have been the natural result of the first invention, it may be doubted 
whether or not he arrived at the result unaided. At any rate, he lived 
in the court of Liang Wu Ti, the great centre of the best represent- 
atives of the Hindoo mind then in China. Furthermore, several 
contemporaneous works treating of the tones have been preserved. 
There is no good reason, therefore, to give Shen Yo the credit that 
he claimed. According to some authorities the number of tones 



♦Since most of the translations of Buddhist works were made in Shensi, 
Shansi, Chihli and Honan provinces, a reference to the original Sanskrit text 
will not fail to give us the right pronunciation of the character as they were 
pronounced at that remote period. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 123 

increased from two to three in the lime of Confucius, and from three 
to four in the time of Shen Yo. The number at the present day is 
eight. 

The Style of the Six Dynasties. — With the invention of the 
two phonetic systems ahove mentioned, a new style of Chinese com- 
position sprang into being, commonly called the Style of the Six 
Dynasties (^$8 11).* This required sentences to be arranged in 
pairs throughout the whole narrative and with strict regard to the 
tones of the words. It was neither prose nor poetry, but the 
combination of the two. For several centuries it continued to be 
the most favorite style with the Chinese scholars; but subsequent 
writers condemned it as an attempt to obtain rhetorical beauty at 
the expense of freshness and originality. It is little used at the 
present day. 

Chinese Geomancy or "Feng Shui."— By Feng S hid (& -fc) 
is meant the peculiar superstition of China which attempts to explain 
how the location of a house, a grave, a city, a road, and the like, 
has to do with the destinies of individual families, or the people at 
large. The origin of this system is uncertain, although some 
authorities are inclined to think that Kuo P'o (#J5 ^), a scholar of 
the Tsin Dynasty, was its author. It is safe to say that it is a system 
which has in it Buddhist as well as Taoist elements. The mention, 
in some books of Feng Shni, of the Sumeru mountain as the centre 
of the world certainly shows that part at least was borrowed from 
India. It is also certain that, since the spread of Buddhism, Feng 
Shni and Buddhism have worked hand in hand. Pagodas were 
originally built as the depositaries of religious relics (Shiriras % M) ; 
but in many places in China, they owe their existence entirely to the 
prevalence of Feng Shiti, which is the greatest enemy to 'progress. 
Feng Shni interferes with commerce, retards the industrial growth of 
a nation, and enslaves the human intellect by foisting upon it the 
superstitions of antiquity. Whether it was an imported system like 
Buddhism, or the product of the Chinese mind, the sooner it is for- 
gotten by the Chinese, the better for China. 

* The bix Dynasties here referred to are, the Tung Wu, Tung Tsin, Liusung, 
Ch'i, Liang and Chen, all of which maintained their courts at Nanking. 



124 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Age of Calligraphers. — The time of the Eastern Tsin 
Dynasty was an age of calligraphers. It was then that Wang Hsi- 
chih (3E H Z) and his son Hsien Chin (jjft Z) and others, lived and 
gave to the world the specimens of their best works. These speci- 
mens of calligraphy, as a rule, are cut in stone, and their " rubbings " 
sold to school boys in China as models. The number of famous 
calligraphers was greatly multiplied during the Epoch of Division 
between the North and the South ; but, by general consent, Wang Hsi- 
chih stands at the head of the list. In China, a calligrapher is as much 
an artist, and enjoys as much respect as a painter. Since the 
Eastern Tsin Dynasty, calligraphy has been considered a separate 
profession. Its development, of course, has had nothing to do with 
the growth of Buddhism; but, among the specimens that have been 
preserved to the present day, there are many copies of Sutras made 
by the calligraphers of note. 

Conclusion. — To criticize Buddhism has been the fashion with 
Confucian historians. These men are not slow to take advantage 
of the fact that the great patrons of Buddhism during the period 
under consideration, were mostly persons, such as Shih Fu, the 
Empress Hu and Liang Hu Ti, whose lives were in no w r ise consistent 
with the faith they professed. Many of 'them w T ere great murderers. 
The historians therefore have come to the conclusion that Buddhism 
encourages crime. If the building of pagodas and temples and the 
like can atone for crimes committed, what deterrent is there, especial- 
ly when such crimes provided the money needed for the alleged 
charitable work ? While in certain cases men did seek Buddhism 
because of remorse, the prosperity of this faitn has been due, no 
doubt, to political as well as religious reasons. The theory of 
retribution is an instrument that an absolute government can handle 
to the best advantage ; and in this respect, Buddhism supplies a defect 
which has long been felt in Confucianism. From a religious stand- 
point, Buddhism actually prepared the way for the Nestorian 
Christianity and the Mohammedanism which flourished in the T'ang 
Dynasty. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTOHY 125 

CHAPTER XVIII 

THE SUI DYNASTY 

Introductory. — As stated in Chapter XVI, China was 
reunited under the Sui Dynasty. Yang Chien {% H), its founder, 
claimed the empire from A.D. 581, the year in which he deposed 
the last ruler of the North Chou (4b M) , although the South was 
not annexed until seven years later. The dynasty took its name 
from his father's dukedom, which he had inherited. Before that 
time it had been perfectly correct to write the character, Sui (g|) , 
with the radical meaning " to run," but Yang Chien considered 
it a bad omen, and discarded the offensive radical, making the 
character appear thus fit. The change he thus introduced, how- 
ever, did not establish his dynasty more firmly. It was short-lived 
and came to an end in A.D. 618. 

Yang Chien, the Founder of the Dynasty. — Yang Chien 
began his public career in the reign of the Wu Ti ($; i£) of North 
Chou. In 576 he became an object of suspicion, and policy 
required him to lie in hiding for a while. The next emperor, 
Hsiian Ti (!&#), being his son-in-law, reinstated him. This 
emperor evidently thought himself equal to the gods, for he 
required the image of Buddha aud that of the Taoist god to be 
placed by him whenever he held court. As the authority of the 
emperor waned, the popularity of Yang Chien increased. After 
the death of Hsiian Ti, which took place in 580, Yang Chien 
compelled his grandson, Ching Ti (f? ifr) , to make him prince of 
Sui. This only served as a stepping stone to the throne. It was 
followed in the next year by the dethronement of Ching Ti 
himself and by the subsequent wholesale slaughter of all the Yu- 
wen (*?£) Tartars, to which tribe the reigning house of North 
Chou belonged. 

The credit for the annexation of Ch'en belonged to his two 
generals, Han Ch'in-fu (ft ?& rj£) and Ho J£-pi (SC^'SiS). On 



126 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

the fall of Nanking in 586, Hon Clin 0& ±) was led to Chang An 
and presented to the spirits in the ancestral hall.* Chang An 
now became again the capital of united China. 

Yang Chien was by no means an unworthy ruler. He 
lightened the taxes, codified the criminal law, instituted the tith- 
ing system, opened public libraries, and set an example of 
simplicity and economy in food and dress. His reign lasted 
sixteen years, during which the population is said to have 
doubled, reaching a total of nearly nine millions. Assassinated 
by his second son, Yang Kuang (dynastic name. Yang Ti), in 
605, he was cannonized as Wen Ti (3t#) with the temple name 
of Kao Tsu (fi M). 

Reign of Yang Ti. — This monarch was the reverse of his 
father. Through the frugality of the latter, he now found the 
finances of the empire in such a condition as to justify his 
expenditure. Accordingly 2,000,000 workmen were forced to lay 
out a new city at Lo Yang. Many magnificent palaces sprang 
up. Rare plants, flowers, birds and animals were brought from 
distant parts of the empire to adorn a park in L,o Yang which 
was 200 li in circumference with a lake ten It in curcumference in 
the centre. The emperor's libraries were also many, and they 
were constructed so that the windows and doors would open 
automatically as one entered and close again as he departed. 
Kiang Tu (tti) (Yangchow) was likewise adorned with 
beautiful edifices. Besides these, there were forty wayside 
residences, established in as many different places*, where he 
took up his abode when on his pleasure trips. A less energetic 



*This is a custom dating, so far as we know, from the Chou Dynasty. The idea 
was to notify the ancestors that a powerful enemy had been overthrown. Under 
the Chou Dynasty no such ceremony was required when the captive belonged to 
the same family as the captor. When the young King of the Taipings was 
captured, the question came up as to whether he should be sent to Peking or not 
and then be presented in the Manchu Temples, the Emperor, Tung Chi, however, 
decided it in the negative; a rebel King not being the chief of a foreign state, 
was not " dignified enough " to be placed in the presence of the spirits. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 127 

ruler would perhaps have been contented with what had been 
good enough for his father to live in. 

The Grand Canal. — If fine palaces do not belong to the 
reign of a weak and effeminate monarch, we can certainly expect 
less from him in the Hue of public improvements. Whatever 
may have been the motive of Yang Ti,* no one can deny that the 
canal system which he gave to Chftia was a blessing rather than 
a curse, as it has often been represented by the Confucian 
historians. He built four principal canals ; one connecting 
Cho Chun ($c U) with the Yellow River (now "known as Wei Ho 
(fff M) in Shantung); the second prolonging the first until it met 
the Huai (?t) at right angles ; the third connecting the Huai and 
the Yangtze ; and the fourth extending from Ching Kou (m H) 
to Hangchow (#ljH1)- For the first time, one could travel by 
boat from "Chang An to Kiang Tu." It is hardly necessary 
to add that such a tremendous w T ork was executed at a great 
sacrifice of life. In China where superstition is supreme, it 
requires a man of more than ordinary will power to effect any 
public improvement of the character described. 

Yang Ti's Foreign Policy. — In external affairs, Yang Ti 
was no less energetic. When their images of gold became the 
trophies of the Chinese soldiers, the ancient people of Annam 
(¥t es) were taught that their elephants could avail them very 
little. The inhabitants of Kokonor (ti: &&.) were subdued and the 
king of the Turkie (^ M.) was induced to enter into a matrimonial 
alliance. Envoys were sent to the states in Hsi Yiieh, and when 
their agents came with tribute, a whole month was given up to 
feasting. A trading mart was established at Feng Chow ($H'H)> 
Shansi, where Chinese, the Turkie i^M), the peoples of Hsi Yiieh 



* The motive assigned to Yang Ti by the ancient historians was his own 
pleasure. It is quite possible that the canal owes its existence as much to military 
schemes as to the emperor's love for pleasure trips. Certain it is Cho Chiin was 
made the base of operations during his three Corean campaigns. Here supplies of 
all kinds were brought in from the South. And no record exists to-day showing 
that the Emperor ever made his pleasure trips on this canal. 



128 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

and others carried on a sort of barter trade. Yang Ti's attention 
having been attracted to the Great Wall, the everlasting monu- 
ment of the " First Emperor," he built an additional wall from 
Yulin (m flc), Shensi, to the Tzu (&) River in Tatungfu (± m ffi) , 
Shansi. 

In the east, his soldiers ventured even into the Pacific, 
attacked the Eoo Choo (5fi s£) Islands, and brought home some of 
the natives who were sold into slavery. His fame travelled so far 
that the Emperor of Japan also sent an embassy to him. In 
the letter addressed to him, the Chinese emperor was spoken of as 
the " Son of Heaven for the Eand of the Setting Sun ( 0X^5^)," 
which shows how little the people at that time knew of the world. 
Yang Ti, who could not bear to think that his sun had begun to 
set, is said to have been highly displeased with the wording of 
this letter. Nevertheless it was true ; the Sui Dynasty did not 
remain long in power after the receipt of the letter in question. 

Expeditions Against Corea. — Towards the close of his 
reign, Yang Ti made several attempts to invade Corea,. because 
its king had refused to pay tribute to the court at Lo Yang. An 
army of 350,000 set out from Cho Chun in 611 to overrun the 
Liaotung peninsula, while a fleet of 300 ships was sent to harass 
the coast. The army fell into a trap and only a small portion of 
it returned to report the defeat. A second expedition, a year 
later, had hardly reached the country of the enemy when Yang 
Ti had to withdraw in order to put down a rebellion in Li Yang 
{% PI). This work having been easily accomplished, he was again 
in 614 at the head of an army marching towards the Corean 
frontier. This time the Coreans, tired of war, sued for peace 
and promised to pay a nominal tribute. The failure of the Corean 
campaign was due, in the first place, to the fact that the invading 
army was too large to be maintained at such a distance. As one 
of Yang Ti's ministers remarked, he was virtually " using a 
ballista of a thousand pounds to shoot a rat." In the second 
place it was a fatal mistake to require his generals, as he did, to 
refer every movement to him. 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 129 

The Dragon Boat Trips. — Whenever there was no war, 
Yang Ti would set out from his capital on pleasure trips. In 
615 while on a progress he was besieged at Yen Men (Jf£ PI) in 
Shansi for no less than a month by the Tnrkie khan. It was the 
trips to Kiang Tn in the South, however, that had the most 
fascination for him. From his officials above a certain rank, he 
required a quota of ornamental dragon boats, the whole forming 
a line of vessels nearly one hundred miles in length. On each 
pleasure trip his entire harem accompanied him. The burden of 
keeping this multitude fed, clothed, and supplied, rested entirely 
with the local population whose governors rivalled one another in 
sending the best of everything to the emperor, his ladies, and 
other favorites. Ere long the burden proved too much for his 
people. While Yang Ti was on his last pleasure trip to Kiang 
Tu, rebellions broke out in Shantung, Chihli, Honan, Shansi, 
Shensi, Kansu, Kiangsi, and other places. 

The Downfall of the Sui Dynasty— By A.D. 617, as 
many as seven usurpers had established themselves at various 
points. They, however, only paved the way for the great 
governor of T'ai Yuan (jUHCf^), the future founder of the T'ang 
(Ji) Dynasty. The name of this governor was Li Yuan (^ M) . 
He had been dispatched to T'ai Yuan to keep back the Tnrkie 
tribes who had arisen against the authority of Yang Ti ; but in 
an engagement his forces had been badly routed. To continue 
the struggle with the enemy was out of the question ; to give up 
the garrison meant his death. It was at this juncture that the 
suggestion of his son, Shili Min (tfr JS), afterwards the illustrious 
T'ai Tsung (jk ^) cf the T'ang Dynasty, was acted upon. The 
suggestion was that he should make peace with the Tnrkie king 
and unfurl the standard of revolt. After a sleepless night, the 
governor gave the final order. " Now, go ahead with your 
scheme," said he to his son ; ",you either bring ruin to our family, 
or give me an empire." It was the latter that Shih Min did. 
With the aid of the Tnrkie, Li Yuan soon found himself in the 
city of Chang An, where he set up as emperor, Yang Yu ($k ffi) , 



130 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Prince of Tai (ftEE), who was a grandson of Yang Chien and 
had been left in that city as regent during the absence of Yang 
Ti. Hsiao Hsien (It $fe) , the new ruler, became undisputed 
master from the East River to the western border of Kuangtung, 
and of Hupeh and the Yellow River defile, and from Han Yang 
in Hupeh to Cochin China. Wang Shih-ch'ung (3Ei& 5fc^, another 
leader, finding himself master of Lo Yang, set the Prince of 
Yeh ($5) on the throne. 

Death of Yang Ti; his Character. — Meanwhile Yang Ti 
had been assassinated by Yu Wen Hua Chi (¥3t1b2k) in Kiang 
Tu. The emperor evidently had thought that when the worst 
came,' he could easily establish himself in Nanking. It is stated 
that he made no sign of returning, but continued to live in 
shameless debauchery. Looking into a mirror one morning, lie 
is said to have remarked : " I wonder who will have the honor 
of chopping my head off my neck". He knew that the empire 
was slipping away from his grasp but made no effort to save 
himself. 

Undoubtedly Yang Ti was a monarch of many vices, but was 
not entirely without claims to greatness. It is quite possible that 
the accounts we have of him from the Confucian historians have 
been exaggerated to a great extent. It should be borne in mind 
that these men, faithful to the tradition of ages, could not view 
the progress of the arts, the introduction of public improvements, 
or the military achievements of a ruler, without jealousy or prej- 
udice. According to them an ideal ruler should not object to 
being imprisoned in his palace, filled with ladies and eunuchs. 
He should patronize no art except what pertained to the 
province of Chinese literature. No work that called for an 
outlay of labor or money was to be attempted. Everything in 
this connection was judged by its cost and then by its motive, 
but they absolutely refused to see results. An emperor was not 
to try to subdue a distant tribe. Let him cultivate his virtue and 
then his fame would make the expeditions unnecessary ! Such 
being their idea of a good ruler, it is no wonder that Yang Ti and 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 131 

the " First Emperor " both have their names among the worst 
monsters of China, and even their good acts condemned in the 
severest language. 

Of Yang Ti, Mr. K. Giles speaks as follows : — "In spite of 
his otherwise disreputable character, Yang Knang {% JH) prided 
himself upon his literary attainments. He set one hundred 
scholars to work, editing a collection of classical, medical, and 
other treatises; and it was under his reign, A. D. 606, that the 
examination for Chin Shih (it db) was instituted." 

With the death of Yang Ti, the Sui Dynasty came to an end. 
The Prince of Tai whom Li Yiian set up in Shansi was made in 
the same year to resign the throne in favor of the emperor-maker, 
who then gave the name T'ang to his dynasty. Thus the Sui 
Dynasty bears the same relation in history to the T'ang as does 
the Ch 4 in to the Han. And Yang Ti was not at all unlike the 
" First Emperor ' ' of the Ch'in. 



132 OUTLINES OV CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER XIX 
T'AI TSUNG AND HIS SUCCESSOR 

Consolidation of Chinese Empire. — When Li Yuan became 
emperor in Chang An (618), his authority was disputed by as many 
as eleven rivals. T To the north, Liu Wu-chou (fiJftJS!) and Liang 
Ssu-tu (m ?H M) had, with the aid of the king of the Turkie 
{%W) f established themselves, respectively, in Mai (J§ g) and 
Shuo Fang ($!;#). To the west two more independent states had 
sprung up in Ho Hsi (ffl M) and Lung Hsi (PfiM). In the east, the 
prospect was no brighter. North of the Yellow River was the 
kingdom of Hsia (%) f founded by Tou Chien-teh GfciEfS), and 
south of it was the kingdom of Wei (it), founded by Li Mi ($ ^). 
The valley of the Huai was divided between Li Tzu-tung ($ ^ M) 
with headquarters at Hai Ling ($tE£), and Tu Fu-wei (*tffc$) 
with headquarters at Li Yang (Jf!P§). At Lo Yang (*£• R|), Wang 
Shih-ch'ung (£f^) had defeated Yu W r en Hwa Chi (*?>$. it R), 
and proclaimed himself Emperor of Cheng (gft). As to the territory 
south of the Yangtze, Hsiao Hsien (ff gft) continued to rule as 
Emperor of Liang Cm) at Kiang Ling (ft &), while Po Yang (K [f ) 
was made the capital of a new state, the kingdom of Ch'u ($g). Such 
was the situation in China at the time of the accession of Li Yuan, 
the first emperor of the T'ang Dynasty. The work of pacification, 
which fell to the lot of his second son, Shih Min, was, therefore, 
one of enormous difficulty. Shih Min was then only a boy of 
seventeen, but he soon proved his worth as a general. After seven 
years of hard fighting, China, with the exception of Shuo Fang, 
which was not conquered till A.D. 628, was reunited. For his distin- 
guished services, he was made Prince of Ch'in (^5E), and Chief 
Guardian of the Empire (jp* f£ _L$F ^), the latter being an office 
specially created for him. As a matter of fact, he was a co-ruler 
with his father. 

"Tragedy of the Yuan Wu Gate" (ft ft M Z ii).— Unfor- 
tunately for him, Shih Min was not his father's first born sen; and 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 133 

consequently in spite of his previous brilliant career, he was not in 
line of succession. It was doubtful whether the co-ruler would 
willingly resign his power to his less famous brother upon his 
father's death ; but meanwhile matters reached a crisis. Shih Min's 
popularity with the court and the people at large turned both his 
brothers, Chien Cheng (££ .$) and Yuan Chi Oc^), the heir to the 
throne, and the Prince of Ch'i (j§), respectively, into enemies. They 
resolved that he must die. The art of poisoning was first resorted 
to; but, as the dose administered was not large enough to kill a 
man. they conspired to make away with him by means of the 
assassin's knife. To anticipate this plot of which Shih Min had 
been fully informed, he had the entrance to his father's palace 
guarded one night by his own soldiers. When the brothers came, 
as usual, in the morning to pay their respects to the emperor, one 
arrow shot by Shih Min himself pierced Chien Cheng and caused 
instant death; while another from the bow of Wei Ch'ih-kung (MM 
1$), a staff-officer of the Prince of Grin, sent the other brother to 
his fate. This tragedy took place in front of the Yuan Wu Gate 
(36 it PI), hence its name. A few months after, Li Yuan, feeling 
himself unequal to the burden of the government, or owing to the 
grief that had been caused by the unfortunate event, resigned in 
favor of Shih Min, now the undisputed heir to the throne. Nine 
years later Li Yuan died. 

Reign of T'ai Tsung 1 .— (A. D. 627-649) . Barring the crime 
that paved his way to the throne, T'ai Tsung was one of the greatest 
rulers China ever had. His reign of twenty-two years formed the 
golden age of the T'ang Dynasty. Although he had been brought 
up in the art of war, he was a man of literary attainments, lofty 
views and kindly disposition. He knew that "an empire founded 
on horseback could not be governed on horseback." He accordingly 
gathered about him the best ability of the day, both among the 
great statesmen and the valiant soldiers. Under the guidance of 
men like Wei Cheng (m il), Tu ju-hui (*fc £n t&), Fang Yuan-ling 
(B 7C ftfr), and others, T'ai Tsung not only led a life worthy of his 
position, but also established a government which was the model for 



1 34 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 




subsequent ages and all the con- 
temporaneous states and nations in 
the Par East. Learning was en- 
couraged, and schools were found- 
ed. Government methods were 
reformed. At the same time he 
did not neglect the military branch 
of the service. Many of the 
border tribes that had been making 
trouble upon the frontier of China 
with immunity were 



Tang T'ai Tsuno 



now taught 
that a stronger hand had assumed 



the direction of affairs. 
Early History of the Turkie.— One of the troublesome tribes 
was the Turkie, or Turks. The main interest of their early history 
centres about the efforts of a certain Tumen (± F1), probably the 
Dutumene of the Turkish and Mongolian legends. Before his time, 
the Turkie were an unimportant tribe of the Altai Mountains, who 
accepted the yoke of the Jou-jan (§& B) and " followed the calling 
of blacksmiths." Through his efforts, they became a terror to China, 
the Roman Empire of the East, and the Persian Empire. The Jou- 
jan, it will be remembered, were the successors of the Hsien-pei in 
Mongolia and were at the height of their power when the Toba 
Tartars ruled North China. Both the Eastern and Western Wei 
found it expedient to purchase immunity from them at a great price. 
Then followed a period of decline in the history of the Jou-jan, 
when the Turkie under the leadership of Tumen suddenly emerged 
from obscurity and, in a single battle, shattered the power of their 
old masters. Leading his bands across the Great Northern Route, 
he stopped to draw breath in Turkestan ; then fell upon the White 
Huns ($if 11 Getar?) and crushed them at a blow. After this ex- 
ploit, he took the title of Ilkhan. The second of his line, Mokan 
(tM~F) Khan, a no less energ-etic man than Tumen, continued his 
conquests. By 562 the extinction of the Jou-jan was completed, 
and the White Huns, once a powerful nation in Asia, had completely 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 135 

disappeared from history. The authority of the Ilkhan now ex- 
tended from the Aral Sea to Manchuria and from Lake Baikal to 
Lake Kokonor. This vast territory he shared with his cousin. 
From this time there were two lines of khans ; one maintaining a 
court at Tu Kung Shan (U fx Ui), near the Khangai Mountain, and 
the other at Chien Chuan (=f- &), on the bank of the Alas River. The 
division evidently did not weaken their strength to any considerable 
extent, for the Western Turkie continued to extend their territory 
at the expense of the Chosores, and their Eastern brethren always 
proved themselves costly friends of both North Ch'i and North 
Chou. The Sui emperors, dreading the menacing power of the 
Eastern Turkie, sought to work up dissensions among them, by 
giving one of the imperial princesses in marriage to a scion of their 
ruling house. With the aid of the Chinese soldiers, this scion finally 
secured the Eastern throne and there ensued a temporary peace. 
This was the Ch'i Ming Khan (I^HJJpJiT) who figured so prominently 
in the annals of the Sui Dynasty. On his death, however, this 
happy state of affairs was ended. Shih Pi (£& #) Khan, by lending 
his aid to Li Yuan, had a hand in the overthrow of the dynasty of 
his grandfather. 

On account of the material aid thus rendered, the demands of 
the Turkie upon the T'angs were most exacting, and their incursions 
became frequent when their demands were not speedily granted. It 
is stated that owing to their aggressions Li Yuan even contemplated 
at one time the removal of his court to a point further into the in- 
terior. Such is the brief survey of the previous history of the 
Turkie. It shows that the foe T'ai Tsung had now to contend with 
was by no means a weak one. 

Conquest of the Turkie.— Even T'ai Tsung would not have 
ventured to measure strength with so formidable an enemy had there 
been no civil disorders. And circumstances seemed to show that 
these disorders were the direct result of Chinese intrigues. At any 
rate, by the time T'ai Tsung began to reign in his own right, there 
were two pretenders to the Eastern throne, and many of their 
northern subject tribes were on the verge of rebellion. One of these 
tribes was the Hsieh Yen-to (W&Vt), whose chieftain presented 



186 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

himself to T'ai Tsung, received the title of Chen Chu Kun-pi (ft & & 
it) Khan, and was assured of his help and protection. The end of 
the Eastern Turkic was drawing near. In A.D. 630, or the 4th 
year of the reign of T'ai Tsung, an army of 100,000 men was sent 
into the north under Li Ching (<£ if) and Li Chi (& Wl)- The Turkie 
soldiers were no longer invincible, and after a series of battles their 
khan, Chieh Li (M M), was taken prisoner. This ended the empire of 
the Eastern Turkie which was henceforth governed by Chen Chu, 
the friend of T'ai Tsung, in the name of the Chinese emperor. 

Ten years after this signal victory, the state of Kao Chang (it; 
^), situated between the cities of Urumtsi (,%#*^) and Turfan 
(ti:^^), was conquered by Hou Chlin-chi (f&M'$k), another famous 
general of T'ai Tsung. This conquest again opened up the Northern 
Route and brought the Chinese frontier close to that of the Western 
Turkie. 

As if to render the task of China easier, political dissensions 
had likewise arisen in this empire. One of the contending chieftains. 
Asinahun by name, appealed to China for help against his own 
kinsman. He was given permission to c ettle at Ting Chow (M Ml) 
to the east of Urumtsi and agreed to fortify the Chinese frontier 
against the Western Turkie. 

Relations with Tibet. — During the long period of anarchy 
in China, the Tibetans had consolidated themselves into a powerful 
nation. Lender a wise ruler, the country had recently been converted 
to Buddhism, and its government was remodelled according to the 
new faith. This ruler was Srcng-Btsang-Sam-Po (M £ #it !f), a 
contemporary of T'ai Tsung. Through the conquests of the Tu 
Ku Hun (&&U) and the Tungut CM*M) tribes that lived around 
Kokonor, in the year A.D. 635 the Chinese territory became 
conterminous with that of Tibet. A war soon broke out between 
the two neighbors for the mastery of Kokonor, but without decisive 
results. In 641 the war was brought to a close by the king of 
Tibet marrying Princess W r en Cheng (3tJ&£-±), daughter of T'ai 



OUTLINES OF CH1NESK HISTORY 137 

Tsung. This alliance tended to open up the mountainous country 
to Chinese civilization and indirectly led to the capture of the 
capital of Central India. 

Conquest of India. — This country had been consolidated un- 
der Yikramditya. King of Ujjain, Malwa, in the beginning of the 
sixth century. Siloditya II QfcRE),a representative of this house, 
was a great patron of Buddhism. Having heard of the Buddhist 
proclivities on the part of T'ai Tsung. he began to send embassies 
to China and the route that lay through Tibet and Nepal was 
constantly used by Chinese and Indian messengers. In 648 Wang 
Yiian-ts'e (aEjclg), the representative of T'ai Tsung, arrived in 
India, only to find the friend of his sovereign dead and his throne 
seized by a usurper, named Alamashun, who expelled the envoy. 
Returning with Tibetan and Nepalese auxiliaries, the latter, however, 
invaded the country and brought Alamashun a prisoner to Chang 
An. After this event, India became again a land of anarchy, and 
Buddhism soon gave place to Hinduism, a combination of Buddhism 
and Brahmanism. The disappearance of Buddhism from the land 
of its birth finally brought India's intercourse with China to an end. 

The Corean Campaign. — The Corean Campaign of T'ai 
Tsung, however, was less glorious. In order that we may under- 
stand clearly the cause that led him to make this oampaign a brief 
sketch of the previous history of Corea may not here be out of 
place. 

After the conquest of Chao Hsien (H W) by Han Wu Ti, a 
general southward migration of the Tung Hu ($#!) (Tungustic) 
tribes of the Sungari (& 7t U) valley immediately took place. One 
tribe, named Kao Kou Li (i^i 37 M) (who have since given their name 
to the peninsula), founded a kingdom in the northern part of 
Corea; another, the kingdom of Pai Chi (WM) to the south; while the 
natives (H $f), being crowded to the southeast, also began to organize 
and found the kingdom of Hsin Lo ($r£§). In point of area, Kao Kou 
Li was the largest. For centuries, these states waged wars against 
one another with varying fortunes. Owing to her geographical 



138 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

position, Hsin Lo at times poured pirates and marauders upon the 
coast of Japan. For this she was severely punished in the beginning 
of the third century by the queen of Japan, who overran the country 
and left a permanent Japanese garrison (1£ ffl fft) there. For a 
century or two thereafter, Japan became an important factor in the 
political affairs of Corea, or more particularly, of South Corea. 
The sixth century, however, found Hsin Lo again in the ascendent. 
She successfully expelled the Japanese, and appropriated a considerable 
portion of the territory of her western neighbor. The northern 
power, now greatly alarmed at the part played by Hsin Lo, took up 
the cause of Pai Chi. An alliance was entered into between Kao Kou 
Li and Pai Chi against her. It is hardly necessary to say that Hsin 
Lo was in no position to resist the allies. Furthermore, the latter had 
the support of Japan against their common enemy. The only quarter 
from which the friendless Hsin Lo could look for succor, was China ; 
and it was in response to her request for protection that Sui Yang 
Ti led the expedition against Kao Kou Li, and it was now the same 
cause that moved T'ai Tsung. 

Following the route of Yang Ti, T'ai Tsung tried to force his 
way into Kao Kou Li from the northwest but without success. 
Several cities fell into the hands of the invaders, but before the 
walls of An Shih (3c7fr) (in the neighborhood of the present city of 
Kai Ping H *p) they could proceed no further. The city was 
brilliantly defended. Hunger and cold also soon added to the 
difficulties of the besiegers, and T'ai Tsung found it expedient to 
order a hasty retreat in A.D. 645. It was the first time that the 
emperor had failed, and he is said to have felt the humiliation very 
keenly. 

Death of T'ai Tsung. — Three years later the illustrious 
emperor passed away. The author of the " Middle Kingdom " 
thinks that he " compares favorably with Akbar, Marcus Aurelius, 
and K'ang Hsi ; or with Charlemagne and Haroun Al Raschid, who 
came to their thrones in the next century ". To the natural abilities 
of a true leader both in times of war and peace, T'ai Tsung added 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



L39 



the discipline oi ages, and never tired of the company of those schol- 
ars who adorned his court. The most worthy trait of this emperor 
was undoubtedly his alertness and the spirit in which he received 
criticisms and admonitions from those far below his rank. " By using 
a mirror of brass," said he, " you may see to adjust your hat; by 
using antiquity as a mirror you may learn to foresee the rise and 
fall of empires; but by using men as a mirror, you may see your own 
merits or demerits.'' It was the last " mirror" of T'ai Tsung, that no 
Chinese emperor could afford to lose sight of. The whole reign of 
twenty-three years showed him to be a man whose guiding principle 
was integrity and whose policy of government, jnstice. Many of the 
maxims he left with his son, compare favorably with those of the 
wisest and best sovereigns. Out of his reign arose the gigantic 
figure of Chinese dominion, and to his efforts must be ascribed the 
greatness, the light, and learning which marked the T'ang Dynasty. 
In memory of this dynasty, which he, rather than his father, founded, 
the Chinese call themselves even to-day " the people of the T'ang.'' 




Memorial for the Conquest of Pai Chi 



140 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Further Conquests. — If T'ai Tsung left unfinished work for 
his son, Kao Tsung (£ ^) (650-683).. he also left him men who 
were capable of doing it. Tims in 660, general Su Ting- fang 
(M&%) invaded Pai Chi (#$?) by sea to punish this kingdom for 
interfering with the tribute that was sent by Hsin Lo lo China. The 
strength of Pai Chi was shattered and., before the Japanese could 
arrive, its king became a captive in the hands of the Chinese. When 
the Japanese did arrive (663) their fleet of one hundred vessels was 
annihilated at the mouth of the Pei River (6 U). Deprived of her 
ally, the conquest of Kao Kou Li followed in 668, when her king, 
realizing die hopeless condition he was in, surrendered himself to 
Li Chi, the invading general. With the exception of Hsin Lo, which 
was already a vassal of China, the rest of Corea was added to the 
increasing Chinese Empire. 

Before the final conquest of Corea was effected, however, a 
rebellion had broken out in Mongolia. This was promptly put down, 
with the result that the whole of what is now Outer Mongolia was 
annexed. 

In 657, Su Ting-fang, the general who three years later became 
the hero of Pai Chi, subdued the remnant of the Western Turkic 
A rebellion broke out soon after, but peace was restored before the 
close of Kao Tsung's reign. 

Fame of the T'angs. — While the first emperors busied them- 
selves in carrying [heir arms to success in the north, northeast, and 
northwest, their fame travelled far and wide in other directions. 
Chinese civilization found its way into the states in the Indo-China 
Peninsula as well as into the neighboring islands, such as Java and 
Sumatra. Embassies bearing tribute from these quarters were numer- 
ous and frequent. The name of T'ai Tsung was not unknown to 
the Greek Emperor Theodosius, whose ambassador reached the 
court at Chang An in 640. Yzdegerd, the last of the Sassanian 
line of Persia Kings, having been hunted by the Moslems from 
province to province, presented himself to T'ai Tsung and sought his 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 141 

protection. His son, Firnz, was the Chinese governor of Persia* 
and died in the palace at Chang An. Even the early Caliphs, 
Omar and Othman, who were conquering a world-empire in the 
name of Allah and the Prophet, were no less eager to cultivate the 
friendship of the powerful Chinese emperor, than their fallen foe, 
the last king of Persia; anil missions continued to arrive at Chang 
An from Medina (the second Capital of the Moslem Empire), with 
precious stones and horses. Japan, the proud Island Empire of 
to-day, was then but an apt student of China. Streams of Japanese 
students, Buddhist monks, and envoys poured into Chang An ; and 
Chinese manners, customs, and culture soon became established facts 
in the Land of the Rising Sun. The epoch embraced by the reigns 
of T'ai Tsung and Kao Tsung was not only the brightest spot in the 
history of China, but also the greastest in that of Asia in general. 
It was about that time that the Crescent of Islam began to rise on 
the western horizon. Between the Chinese and the Tai Shih (;*: j£) 
(Tazi, Tasit, Taits, etc.), as the Arabs were then know r n in China, a 
monopoly of the world's commerce was successfully maintained. 
Fleets of Chinese junks sailed proudly into the Persia Gulf, while 
thousands of Arab merchants settled in Hangchow (#t;/'l'[), Chuan 
Chow (Jfeai), and other coast cities. (For Mohammedanism and 
other foreign faiths, see Chapter XXII.) 

Extent of Empire. — The empire under the first emperors of 
the T'ang Dynasty extended from the Yellow Sea to the Aral Sea, 
and from Siberia to the southernmost point in Farther India. 
Outside of China Proper, which was then divided into ten Tao (it) 
(provinces), the dependencies were governed through six viceroys 
(UMftf), stationed at Ping Hsiang (T-^) (Corea), Lang Shan Fu 
(SI Uj Iff) (Mongolia), Yiin Chung (g #) (on the northern border of 
Shansi), Urumtsi (the Great Northern Route), Karashare (M^SJff) 
(the Great Southern Route), and Hanoi (M^) (Tonquin-China). 
This empire was the largest ever under the sway of a purely Chinese 
dynasty. 

* Uti .er this title, Firuz set out from Chang An with a Chinese escort to 
recover his father's lost enipiie, but without success. Persia was then in the 
hands of the Moslems. 



142 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER XX 
THE DECLINE OF THE T'ANG DYNASTY 

Wu Tse-tien.— j-For half a century after the death of T'ai 
Tsung, China lay prostrate at the feet of two women. The first of 
these was Wu Shih ($; #), or Wu Tse-tien ($t JW 5"c), "the greatest 
of China's Catherines," 




Empress Wu 



At the age of fourteen (637), she was admitted into the palace 
of T'ai Tsung as a Tsai-jen (# A) (an imperial concubine of low 
grade). Upon his death, she was forced to retire, as was then the 
custom, into a nunnery with his other concubinesj This enforced 
retirement, however, was hut temporary. rSy 654, she was again 
introduced into the palace, this time by the queen of Kao Tsung, 
whose motive was to counteract the influence of another palace lady 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 1 t3 

who had alienated the emperor's affections. But her scheme ended 
in disaster, for she only displaced one enemy with another who was 
more ambitious and cruel. The result was that the queen was 
ruthlessly put to death in order to make room for her supposed 
friend. Thus for her jealousy, the queen paid the penalty with her 
position and life^J Wu Shih was now high in position, but her 
ambition still knew no bound. It happened then that Kao Tsung 
was taken sick and for a time was unable to attend to his routine 
business. His duties devolved upon his queen. Her temporary 
regime proved so satisfactory to all concerned that she was permitted 
to share the responsibilities of the government with her husband 
when the latter had completely recovered. Seated behind a screen 
near the throne, she was the real ruler of China. That she and the 
emperor were commonly spoken of as the "Two Sages" (n H) 
speaks well for the esteem in which she was held by the Chinese of 
her day. With the exception of the first nine years of his reign, 
Kao Tsung was but a puppet in her hands. 

After the death of her husband, both her sons, Chung Tsung 
(4» t£) and Jui Tsung (# ^), were put on the throne, each for a few 
months only ; and with the queen as regent. Then the former was 
got rid of by being sent a prisoner to Fang Chow (B 0H) ', the latter, 
smarting under the fate of his brother, gladly resigned in favor of 
his mother, who, thereupon, began to reign in her own right as 
Huang Ti. During the last fifteen years of her reign, which con- 
sisted of twenty-two years (682-704), the dynastic name was 
changed from T'ang to Chou (M). Except a few unsuccessful 
attempts at rebellion, her rule was willingly submitted to by all. 
The people prospered and much glory was added to the arms of the 
T'angs. It was only when this remarkable woman was weakened 
by old age and chronic illness that a mutiny took place among the 
imperial guard and resulted in the restoration of the throne to 
Chung Tsung (704). 

Her Character. -(Jn spite of the verdict of subsequent ages 
against her, no one can deny that the deeds of Wu Tse-tien entitle 
her to a place among the great women of the world. KHer fame has 



1H OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

suffered not a little at the hands of Confucian historians. "$3ut had 
these men lived in her day, they would probabjy have done as the 
great statesmen and scholars of her time did., (:Among the latter it 
is sufficient to mention the names of Ti Jen-chieh (& A U) and 
Chang- Chien-chih (3£ M £), both of whom had force of character 
and integrity that are recognized by Confucian scholars.J These 
men honored her and placed their genius at her disposal. Few- 
rulers of antiquity were able to gather about them the ablest men of 
the day, and exercise such complete control over them as did Wu 
Tse-tien. Even at the last moment, when the mutineers broke into 
her apartment, none of them dared lay his hand on her. They 
requested her to abdicate,, and she gladly consented. After this 
event she lived another year. If she were as immoral, cruel, and 
despotic as she has been represented, her case was but a woman's 
revenge upon Chinese society. She was but a woman who had been 
brought up in the harem of a Chinese emperor, where polygamy was 
regarded as an imperial prerogative, and where law and justice 
received very little consideration. Inasmuch as history fails, or 
refuses, to record such an event, who knows the number of women 
that died violent deaths in the palace during the reign of each 
emperor ? Perhaps the motive of the Chinese historians is not so 
much an intention to do her an injustice, as to deter women of less 
ability from assuming the role Wu Tse-tien so ably played before 
them. The usurpation of power by such a woman is always a 
calamity. A case in point will be presented presently. 

Restoration of Chung Tsung (AD. 705-709) —The re- 
storation of this weak monarch simply meant the passing of the 
sceptre from one woman to another. During his confinement in 
Fang Chow, Chung Tsung, struck with the fidelity with which his 
wife, Wei Hou iM-Jn), had clung to him in his hour of misfortune, 
had promised her that should fortune again come to him, she should 
have whatever she wished to ask of him. Now that fortune had 
returned, she did not seem to ask very much. All she asked was 
that she be allowed the same privilege that had been given to her 
mother-in-law by Chung Tsung's father. The precedent was in her 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 14") 

favor, and had he so desired Chung Tsung could not very well 
refuse her request. The emperor kept his word. Undoubtedly, it 
was Wei Hou's desire to follow in the footsteps of Wu Tse-tien; 
but unfortunately she had inherited all the latter's vices without her 
greatness. She was guilty of all the crimes that have been charged 
against her mother-in-law, but failed to wield the power after the 
manner of her predecessor. In her debauchery, she was greatly 
assisted by her daughter, and Shang Kuan Wan-erh (± 1? M %), a 
famous beauty and poetess. They found it necessary to kill even 
the harmless Chung Tsung, who was put out of the way in 709, five 
\ears after his second accession. This event was the signal for 
trouble. The son of Jui Chung, afterwards Yuan Tsung {%%), 
headed the movement to avenge the death of his uncle, and all three 
of the women and their favorites, of whom the court was full, w T ere 
put to death. When matters were re-adjusted Jui Tsung again 
became emperor; but, after an uneventful reign of four years, he 
abdicated in favor of Yiian Tsung. 

Reign of Yiian Tsung. — This prince reigned forty-five years, 
which was the longest of the T'ang Dynasty. It was also a most 
celebrated one, both on account of the splendours with which it began 
and thj disasters that brought it to a close. Two names were used 
by the emperor during his reign. From 713 to 741 he was known 
as K'ai Y^iian (§B %) ; from 742 to 755, as Tien Pao (^ %). During 
the first period, his reign approximated that of his great-grandfather, 
T'ai Tsung, in prosperity and glory; but the situation was very 
different during his latter years. The cause was that the men to 
whom the fame of K'ai Yiian was due, Yao Tsung (Ik ^) and Sung 
Ching (TtcJt), were succeeded by the unworthy Li Lin-fu (2£ $c if) 
and Yang Kuo-chung ($? [I] &). About this time, the emperor, tired 
of the daily routine of his high office, and addicted to luxury and 
women, also became indolent. The number of his mistresses is said 
to have reached forty thousand ; but only one of them, the famous 
beauty Yang Kuei-fei ($rjME), was able to fascinate the aged 
monarch. Not only her brothers, of whom Yang Kuo-chung was 
one, but her sisters, too, received titles of nobility. The effect upon 



146 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



the nation, as a poet of the T'ang Dynasty informs us, was that 
Chinese mothers of that time began to think more of their daughters 
than of their sons. 

Rebellion by An Lu-shan.-— The event that brought the reign 
of Yiian Tsung to an unhappy termination was the rebellion headed 
by a man of Tartar descent, named An Lu-shan (3c f& III). This 
Tartar had gained the full confidence of the emperor. Tradition 
has it that he was the adopted so of Yang Kuei-fei. No office 
was too high for him, and he soon held the governorship of three 
frontier cities. Ping Lu (-^21). Fan Yang (?£!%) and Ho Tung, 
(M"^), along the northern borders of the present Chihli and Shansi 
provinces. This meant that he had the best and largest armies of 
the empire under his immediate commancLj Gradually all the 
Chinese officers under him were displaced by Tartars; but still the 
emperor refused to be alarmed. In 754, China lost 200,000 men in 
an attempt to reduce the barbarous state of Nan Chao (jlitg) (in 
Yunnan) to submission. This weakened the military strength of the 
empire to such an extent that An Lu-shan hesitated no longer and 
unfurled the standard of revolt in the following year. At the head 
of an army numbering 150,000 men with some Tartar auxiliaries 
he pressed southward carrying everything before him. [After 
Lo Yang, the eastern metropolis, had been invested and carried by 
storm, An Lu-shan assumed the citle of Emperor and called the 
territory that had come under his authority the state of Yen (^). 
The next fortress against which he directed his forces was Tung 
Kuan (rtll), the historic pass between him and the western 
metropolis, Chang An. I This pass was defended by Ko Chu- 
han (^gffft), a distinguished general, whose plan was to avoid an 
encounter with the enemy until Kuo Tzu-i (IP =f H) and Li Kuang- 
pi (&%m), Governors of So Fang (m %) and Ho Pei (fflft), 
respectively, could have time to march against Ping Lu, the home of 
the rebel. Accordingly he stationed his soldiers behind the remparts : 
but his strategem was reported to Chang An as cowardice, and a 
peremptory order came for him to meet the enemy in the open field. 
This was done but the result was an overwhelming defeat, the 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 147 

general becoming a captive in the hands of the rebel. Tung Kuan 
fell, and there was now practically nothing to prevent the rebels 
from marching directly upon the capital. 

Flight of the Court. — So greal was the alarm of Yuan Tsung 

that he at once took to flight. On arrival at Ala Wei (J§ %), the 
s< >ldiers that made up the escort, mutinied, killed Yang Kuo-chung, 
and forced the emperor to give up his favorite concubine, Yang Kuci- 
fei, who was held equally responsible for the calamity that had 
befallen the nation. As to exactly how she met her death, authorities 
differ, but all accounts agree that she committed suicide by order of 
the emperor. Thus was a woman made the scapegoat. Satisfied 
that the victim of their wrath was dead, the mutineers returned to 
their allegiance and escorted the emperor to Chengtu. However, 
the heir-apparent, afterwards Su Tsung (M a>5) (756-762), took a 
northwestern route from Ala Wei and made his way into Ling Wu 
CM j£) (now Ling Chow (ffijH'l), Kansu) where he was proclaimed 
emperor and was soon joined by the armies of Governors Kuo Tzu-i 
and Li Kuang-pi. 

Meanwhile the rebels were in possession of Chang An. Be- 
wildered by the splendor of the city, they gave themselves up to loot 
and all sort> of sexual excesses, thus permitting the emperor to flee 
into Szechttan and his son to set up a new government in Kansu. 
All their loot was transferred to Lo Yang. 

End of Rebellion.— In the east, however, severe lighting had 
been going on ; but. owing to the valor displayed by the garrisons 
at Ping Yuan (^ W.) and Ch'ang Shan (^Oiy, the progress of the 
rebels in the direction of Shantung was checked. Nor were they 
more successful in their attempts to invade the Yangtze region. In 
the direction of Anhui the}' were confronted by the stronghold of 
Sui Yang (B£'.[^) ; in the direction of Hupeh their advance was 
blocked by the city of Nan Yang (\%[%), and both of these cities 
were holding out stubbornly. The rich Yangtze Valley was, there- 
fore, saved from the depredation.^ of the rebels. Supplies from the 
south were forwarded by way of the Hsiaiig-Yang-Wen-Yang 
; Mi%:B\%) route to Feng Hsiang (E$1), whence they went to Ling 



148 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Wu in the northwest and Chengtu in the southwest. Thus was the 
court at Chengtu saved from starvation, and that at Ling Wu enabled 
to hire Ouigur (EOfe) mercenaries who joined the two Chinese 
generals in inarching down upon the rebels. At the same time, the 
rebellion was rapidly dying out. An Lu-shan, having disinherited his 
son Ching Hsu (M *#), was assassinated by the latter, who in turn was 
murdered by his general Shih Ssii-ming (& Jg ty). The last named 
murderer maintained a show of authority in Fan Yang (?£ %) for 
a brief time; but, like his chief, An Lu-shan, met a violent death at 
the hands of his own son. These dissensions made the work of 
restoration comparatively easy, and by the end of the reign of Su 
Tsung most of the cities had been recaptured, although the rebellion 
was not crushed until 763, the first year of the reign of Tai Tsung 
Oft^) (763-779), son of Su Tsung. Yiian Tsung, the ex-emperor, 
and Su Tsung had both died in the previous year after their return 
to Chang An. 

Successors of Su Tsung. — The rebellion of An Lu-shan, now 
successfully put down, was the turning point in the fortunes of the 
T'ang Dynasty. The dynasty remained in power until 906; but the 
successors of Su Tsung, thirteen in number, were with few exceptions, 
mere palace debauchees or puppets in the hands of their eunuchs. 
Trains of misfortune rolled over the dynasty, and the reigns of the 
few energetic rulers, notably Hsien Tsung (M %) (805-820) and 
Hsiian Tsung CM ^) (847-859) , may be likened to the sunset views on 
the western horizon. They are beautiful but of brief duration and i 
soon to be rapidly buried under the darkness of night. The 
troubles that now came thick to hasten the downfall of the house of 
Li may be summarized under three headings, viz., the rise of the 
border tribes, the insubordination of the governors, and the power of 
the eunuchs. 

Rise: of Bordkr Tribes 

The Ouigurs. — At the head of the list of these tribes stand the 
Ouigurs. That they did much to restore order in China, has already 
been mentioned. Their name, according to some writers, signifies 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 149 

" civilized Turks.'' At all events, they possessed some civilization, 
and had a writing- of their own which later became the root of 
the Mongolian language. In their territory, they had succeeded to 
the original possessions of the Eastern Turkic Once within the 
Great Wall, they could no longer be deceived as to the true condition 
in China. While they sold their services for hire, they did not forget 
to appropriate such land as lay within their reach. To keep their 
friendship, two imperial princesses* were given in marriage to their 
khans on different occasions, and a periodical payment of money 
had to be made. Wealth thus obtained without labor, however, was 
their own ruin. They began to build palaces and live in a luxuriant 
Chinese style. In course of time, they were compelled to give place 
to a newer stock from the Mongolian steppes, — the Kirghizes, who 
followed closely in their footsteps. 

The Tibetans. — Scarcely had Chang An recovered from its last 
blow, when it was laid waste by the Tibetans, who in the days of 
Tai Tsung had made such strenuous efforts to adopt Chinese 
manners and customs. Barely escaping capture, the Tai Tsung 
(ft ^), who had come to the throne less than a year previously, fled to 
Shenchow ($s JH). No longer could he count on the support of the 
Ouigurs, for the latter had gone over to the side of the enemy. 
Fortunately there was one man in China, Kuo Tzu-i, who was held 
in high esteem by the Ouigurs. He promptly repaired to their 
camp, saw their khan, who but a few years previously had fought 
under the Chinese standard by his side, and concluded a secret 
treaty with him. On hearing of the bad faith of their ally, the 
Tibetans withdrew, but retained all the territory known as Ho Hsi 
(M M) and Lung Hsi ($t ffi), which they had conquered. Henceforth 
the Ouigurs were their enemies, on whom they inflicted so severe a 
defeat in 790 that the latter never recovered from its effect. During 
the next thirty years the warlike energy of the Tibetans gradually 
burned itself out, and in 822 a treaty, concluded between China and 



* Princess Ning Kuo (^ [g). daughter of Su Tsung. and Princess Hsien An 
(J& 3c) , daughter of Te Tsung. 



150 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Tibet, was inscribed on a stone monument at Lhasa. A peculiar 
feature of this treaty was the fact that the Emperor of China and 
the King of Tibet were mentioned therein as " Uncle " and 
" Nephew," respectively. This, doubtless, had reference to the 
marriages of princess Wen Chen to Srong Tsung Gam-Po and that 
of the daughter of Jui Tsung to his great-grandson. 

Nan Chao, or Aborigines of Yunnan. — The tribes to the south 
of Tibet were quite as formidable as they, and were known by the name 
of Nan Chao. Chao was the word the aborigines of Yunnan had 
for king. There were at one time six kings, or Chaos, in Yunnan. 
'The southernmost, being the strongest, gradually absorbed the lands 
of the other rive, hence the name Nan Chao. These tribes allied 
themselves with the Tibetans and made frequent incursions into 
Szechuan and Kueichow, their capital being what is now Talifu 
{-X ?! /ff), Yunnan. Towards the close of the 9th century they were 
at the height of their power, when most of the dependencies in the 
Indo-China peninsula transferred their allegiance from the T'ang 
emperor to the King of Tali. The modern province of Yunnan 
and parts of Szechuan and Kueichow were lost to the Chinese 
Empire for a period of nearly four hundred years. 

Insubordination of the Governors 

At the beginning of the reign of Tai Tsung, several of the 
former rebel chiefs were appointed to the governorship of cities 
along the Great Wall. Threatened with a foreign invasion, the 
government at Chang An was unable to keep its eyes on them. 
They entered into political as well as matrimonial alliances among 
themselves, fortified their cities, and even withheld what revenue was 
due Chang An. Their conduct acted contagiously on governors in 
other parts of China, and by the time Te Tsung (#. %) ascended the 
throne, extraordinary measures had to be resorted to in order to 
obtain the required revenue. Dwelling houses were accordingly 
taxed and a sort of consumption tax was also levied. These 
measures were so unpopular that one of the governors openly 
revolted and took Chang An, the emperor, for the sake of personal 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 151 

safety, fleeing to Feng Tien (^3c), (Kien Chow (ft MI), Shensi 
(Rfc IS). Hsien Tsung (80G-820), tired of the shameful condition 
of affairs he had inherited from his predecessor, singled out the 
governor of Huai Hsi Ujffl) and had his city invested by the imperial 
troops. After a brief siege, Tsai Chow (HM) was taken, and its 
governor, Wu Yiian-chi i^tjt $?), was brought a prisoner to Chang 
An. The punishment thus dealt out, brought the other governors to 
their senses, and caused them to transmit promptly the imperial tribute 
to the capital. This happy condition of things, however, lasted only as 
long as Hsien Tsung lived ; and as soon as he was gone they returned 
to their old way. Their positions becoming hereditary, they were 
almost independent of Chang An and ready at any moment to partition 
the empire. The only vestige of the emperor's authority lay in 
confirming new governors who had already secured their positions. 

Rule of Eunuchs 

Hsien Tsung was the lirst of Li Yuan's descendants who met a 
violent death at the hands of a eunuch, but from this time forth 
they were the emperor- makers. As a matter of fact, all Hsien 
Tsung's successors, with the exception of the last one, were their 
creatures. In the year 835, a plot was on foot to get rid of their 
control of the government; but it only resulted in the execution of 
its promoters and the indiscriminate slaughter of their families. 
Wen Tsung (3t^) (827-840) is said to have asked for the opinion 
of one of his ministers as to his own worth. This minister, a 
trained flatterer, promptly replied that he thought his sovereign 
would compare favorably with Yao and Shun. But to this the 
emperor would not agree, and told him that he could not compare 
even with Han Hsien Ti (mWifr). To explain this, he called 
attention to the fact that while Han Hsien Ti was a prisoner in the 
hands of a powerful minister . he was one in the hands of his eunuchs. 
This remark serves to show the extent of the eunuch power. The 
emperor desired to shake off their yoke, but was helpless. 

Rebellion of Wang Chao. — Hemmed in by the border ' tribes 
and undermined by the influences of the eunuchs and rebellious 



152 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

governors, the house of T'ang was tottering- to its fall. To add to its 
miseries and misfortunes, a severe famine ravaged the whole of 
Kuan Tung (MM) in 881. As a consequence, a rebellion broke out 
in what is now the province of Shantung, the rebels gathering around 
Wang Chih-hsien (£ *£ filj) as their leader. The rebellion spread 
throughout the country like an epidemic. When Wang Chih-hsien 
was slain in Hupeh his place was taken up by his able lieutenant, 
Huang Chao (St HI). With incredible rapidity, he overran the 
territory now included in the provinces of Chekiang, Fukien, and 
Kuangtung. Then following the course of the Hsiang (M) River, 
they captured Chang Sha (^ $>) and marched to Hsiang Yang (#| %). 
Checked there by imperial troops, they turned east, took Wu Chang 
(b£ Hi), and floated down the Yangtze. After ravaging the region 
of Kiangnan, they crossed the Yangtze and the Huai ($£) into Ho 
Nan (M jf ) and captured Lo Y^ang. From L,o Y^ang they marched 
due west and took possession of the capital, Chang An. Hsi Tsung 
(1& %), who had come to the throne a year previous, took the route 
of Yuan Tsung (ft ^) and fled into Szechuan. He, like his pred- 
ecessor, Su Tsung, looked to the tribes north of the Great Wall and 
the Tarim Valley for help. It was not the Ouigurs but the Sha To 
(® P£) that came to his rescue. Li K'o-yung (^ ~$LB), King of the 
Sha To and Commander of the " Black Crows," as his invincible 
soldiers were then called, chased the rebels from place to place like 
a cat after rats. On the death of Huang Chao, his lieutenant, Chu 
Wen (3c fi), a man destined to play an important part in history, 
surrendered to the emperor ; and received as his reward, the govern- 
orship of Ho Nan. Hsi Tsung gave him the new name of Chu 
Chuan-chung (£ ^r J&), or Chu "the Most Loyal"; but, as we shall 
presently see, he was scarcely worthy of such a title. 

Downfall of the T'ang. — Hsi Tsung died in 888 and his throne 
fell on his brother, Chao Tsung (8g |g). He was another creature of 
the eunuchs, but was no friend to them. No sooner was he seated 
upon the throne than he sent secret orders to Chu to come to Chang 
An with his troops to exterminate the eunuchs. Chu gladly responded. 
Except some thirty young ones needed for janitor service within 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 153 

the palace, every eunuch was put to the sword. The emperor, how- 
ever, did not survive them long. In the next year (904) he was 
compelled by Chu to transfer the seat of government to Lo Yang. 
Several governors came to the rescue of the emperor, but their 
action only tended to hasten his end. To thwart their purpose, Chu 
caused the emperor to be murdered and a young boy, Chao Hsiang Ti 
06 m #), to be put in his stead (905). When this last representative 
of the T'ang was put to death two years later, Chu assumed the title 
of emperor and established the Liang (^) Dynasty. 

The signal for the partition of China was now given. Liu Jen- 
kung (fij a ^), or king of Yen ($g), took possession of Chihli. West 
of this was the kingdom of Chin (W), the present Shansi province, 
presided over by Li K'o-yung (& ^ /8). Further to the west, Kuan 
Chung (M *) and Lung Hsi (H ©) formed the kingdom of Li Mao- 
chen (&J&M.) which he named Ch'i ($). Szechuan became the 
kingdom of Szu (S), and Yangchow, the kingdom of Wu (&), 
which came to embrace all the land watered by the Huai and bounded 
by the sea on the east, by the Yangtze on the south, and by Wu 
Chang on the west. In Chekiang was the kingdom of Wu 
Yiieh (^|S), founded by Ch'ien Liu (£3 IS). To the south, Wang 
Shen-chih (f£ f| £), established his kingdom of Min (M) in Foochow. 
This may be reckoned as the date when Fukien first took rank 
among the civilized provinces of China. The two pagodas which 
form the landmarks of Foochow at the present day owe their 
existence to one of the representatives of this house, who was a 
devoted Buddhist. 

To go on with the list of the petty kingdoms, Ma Yin (,H Wt) 
set up a kingdom in Hunan which he called Ch'u (36). At the same 
time Hupeh and Chin-nan Offfi) were occupied by Kao Chi-hsing (% 
^ H) and Liu Yin (SO H) respectively, and they were the only two 
governors who did not assume royal style. Thus was the T'ang 
empire broken into fragments, which were not reunited until the 
latter half of the 10th centurv. 



154 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER XXI 
RELIGIONS, MANNERS, ETC., OF THE T'ANGS 

Taoism. — Taoism mav be regarded as the state religion of 
the T'angs. It was no longer the alchemy of the Han Dynasty, 
and neither was it chiefly occupied with the transmutation of 
other metals into gold. It was a compound of Buddhism and the 
earlier native element, and like the former it taught the writing of 
charms and the reading of prayers. It had a god of its own, 
called Yuan Sliili Tien Tsun (ytZaJzW), or god of origin. 
With him was always associated Lao Tzu (5g =£), as the co-ruler of 
the universe, and under them was a set of lesser divinities, mostly 
their alleged disciples. Such was the Taoism of the T'ang 
Dynasty. It owed its position not to its own merits as a religion, 
but to the fact that the reigning house claimed lineage from the 
Lao Tzii (3£ ; ?) of its superstition. 

According to a popular story, the spirit of Lao Tzu was seen 
by a native of Chin Chow (W 'M), to whom was given the following 
command: "Go and inform your sovereign that I am his 
ancestor." Upon hearing this, Kao Tsu (ifS M.) , the first emperor 
of the T'ang line, caused a temple to be erected to the memory of 
his u first ancestor " on the spot where the spirit was said to have 
appeared. One of his successors honored Lao Tzu with an 
imperial title, calling him the Yuan Yuan Huang Ti (7c 7c ik ifr). 
Under the statutes of the dynasty, Tao Te Cliing (M W, II) became 
a household book and members of the royal family were required 
to acquaint themselves with its abstruse teachings. Taoist priests 
were exempted from taxation, and at times were appointed to high 
offices under the government. To house them a Kuan (H) 
(Monastery) was built in each Chow (Ml) (department). Among 
the inmates of the convents there were many imperial prin- 
cesses, the two daughters of Jui Tsung being the first princesses 
who voluntarily gave up everything they had for the sake of 
Taoism. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



155 



l c->" = 



Buddhism. — In spite of the political supremacy conceded to 
Taoism, Buddhism continued to hold its own ground. It is true 
that the first emperor of the dynasty was not in favor of the 
foreign faith, but the restrictions he placed on its converts were 
immediately removed by his 
successor, the illustrious T'ai 
Tsung. During the latter's reign 
the celebrated Yuan Tsung (jc^) 
made his tours through India, 
leaving China by the overland 
route through Turkestan in A.D. 
629, and reaching home in the 
sixteenth year after his departure, 
with no less than 657 new 
Sanskrit books. Like his pred- 
ecessors, he left us a description 
of the places he had visited, and 
spent his remaining days in 
translation, the prefaces to several 
of his works being from the pens 
of T'ai Tsung and his son, Kao 
Tsung. The Empress Wu was 
regarded as Maitreya (M Wi #)• or 
the Buddha that was to come. 

multiplied and monks were appointed to high offices. Su Tsung 
(M £) in 760 appointed a ceremony for his birthday in accord- 
ance with the ritual £>f the Buddhist religion. Buddhas and 
Buddhisatras ($1 Wi) were personated by palace ladies and others, 
while the courtiers performed the usual ceremony before their 
sovereign. His son, Tai Tsung (jt ^), was more devoted than 
his father. The Sutra of the Benevolent King (£:3E$g) was 
brought to court in a state carriage with the same parade of 
attendants and finery as was usual in the case of a Chinese 
emperor setting out from his palace. When his territory was 
invaded, Te Tsung ('& £) set his monks to chanting prayers, and 




Yuen Tsun 



Iii her reign 



monasteries 



156 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

it was by him that Amogha (.^ ^),a Saghalese priest, was honored 
with the title of duke. In 819 the emperor, Hsien Tsung, sent 
commissioners to escort a bone of Buddha from Feng Hsiang (MM) 
to the Capital. This was the occasion that brought forth a strong 
protest from Han Yu (ft M) and his " Memorial on Buddha's Bone 
(f$#J^) ; " which has been so often quoted from by Christian 
missionaries of the present day that they have done much to 
immortalize the name of its author. Although the Taoists succeeded 
in bringing about a severe persecution in the year 845 when 
4,600 monasteries and 40,000 smaller buildings were destroyed 
and more than 260,000 monks and nuns were compelled by imperial 
order to return to common employments, the effect was but 
temporary. Wu Tsung, the author of the persecution, died almost 
immediately thereafter, and his policy was reversed by his 
successor, Hsiian Tsung (3a I*). It was a curious coincidence 
that the three emperors, in whose reigns occurred the most 
severe persecution of Buddhism, were all named Wu, viz., Tao Wu 
Ti G£& #) of Wei 0»), Wu Ti (ft #) of North Chou (ft M) and 
Wu Tsung (ftzg) of T'ang ; hence these cruel events are commonly 
spoken of collectively, as the "Calamity of the Three W r us 
(Sft £i5). ,, 

Hindoo Calendar. — About the time of the reign of Empress 
Wu, the Hindoo calendar was for the first time adopted in 
China. The Kuang Chai (%%) Calendar (gg), adopted in 
684, was the work of a Hindoo monk employed by the 
empress for the purpose of revising the older 
calendar. In the 9th year of K'ai Yiian, A.D. 
721, a Chinese monk and celebrated astronomer, 
I Hsiug (—fir), was employed for the same 
purpose. His method of calculation was based 
upon that of Gaudamsiddha, a Hindoo monk. At 
about the same time, arithmetical knowledge had 
made rapid progress in China, and it is probable 
that the Chinese received much help from such 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 157 

Brahmanical book on arithmetic as had been translated by the 
Hindoo priests. These books are now hopelessly lost, although 
their names remain recorded in the catalogue of the Sui Dynasty 
without any remark concerning them. 

Other Foreign Faiths. —Buddhism, however, was not the 
only foreign faith that flourished under the T'ang emperors. 
Driven before the Sword of Islam, the so-called infidels of Persia 
and Central Asia were obliged to seek a land where freedom of 
worship was an established fact. Such a land was China. 
Through the two Great Routes north and south of the Tien Shan, 
therefore, the Zoroastrians, the Nestorians, and the Manichaeans, 
flocked into China and were received with open arms by T'ai 
Tsung and his immediate successors. Thus we find in 634, 
shortly before the return of Yiian Tsung from India, that 
Christianity was brought into the palace in Chang An by a 
Syrian monk, named Olopun (IfcJH #) , and that much favor was 
shown to him by T'ai Tsung and his court. The prime minister 
went out of the city to meet him, permission was given him to 
build a church in the capital, and twenty-one converts were 
admitted into the priesthood. Kao Tsung, the next emperor, 
was likewise favorably inclined towards this new faith. He 
conferred a high religions title on Olopun and gave him 
permission to erect similar churches in the provinces. The name 
under which the faith became known was Ching Chiao (iP: WO . 
The church, however, was called the Po Ssu Shih (i&J&f^), or 
Persian Church, until 745, in which year it was changed into Ta 
Ch'in Shih (;fc ^ #), or Roman Church. The celebrated Nestorian 
monument, unearthed in Hsianfu in 1625, gives an interesting 
account of the progress the Nestorians had made under the first 
emperors of the T'ang Dynasty. 

Olopun, however, was not the first missionary that brought 
Christianity into China. During the Eastern Han Dynasty, eggs 
of the Chinese silkworm were successfully carried into Europe 
by two Syrian monks. We may take it for granted that these 
monks were not sent into China for the sole purpose of stealing 



158 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



the secret of silk-making. But in the absence of other monuments 
similar to the one above referred to, or any other reliable records, 
we are unable to say anything as to the result of their missionary 
labors. 

That the Zoroastrians formed quite a powerful sect is 
evidenced from the fact that under the T'ang Dynasty, a special 
official, called Yao Cheng (|£ IE), was appointed and charged with 
the duty of looking after their church officers and laymen. No 
similar officials were appointed for other religions excepting 
Buddhism and Taoism. 




Nestorian Tablet, Hsianfu 



As regards Manichaeism, its introduction into China was of a 
comparatively later date. It was not brought in until the Ouigurs 
were given leave to settle in China and to erect their own places of 
worship. As the followers of this faith refrained from eating 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 159 

unclean food, which included all animals, wine, etc., many 
Chinese historians have mistaken them for Mohammedans. The 
proper Chinese name for this religion is Mani Chiao (Jfc/E tJc). It 
was to this church that the emperor Tai Tsung (ft- ^ 763-779) 
presented the tablet containing- the characters, Ta Ytin Kuang 
Ming r^i^HJj), the '"Light that penetrates through the Clouds." 

All these faiths shared the fate of Buddhism towards the end 
of Wu Tsung's reign. It is stated that 70 Manichaean nuns then 
found in the capital were ruthlessly put to death. While Buddhism 
revived, they (the other foreign religions ) never did. Thereafter 
their field of labor was confined to Turkestan. Here they soon 
encountered Mohammedanism and gradually disappeared. 

Mohammedanism. — This is the system founded by 
Mohammed, who was born at Mecca, Arabia, in A.D. 570, of a 
poor family of the tribe of the Koreishites. The sum total of 
Mohammedanism is that there is but one God and Mohammed 
is his Prophet. It is also called Islam, signifying submission, 
because it was a doctrine spread by the sword. After the death 
of Mohammed, his successors, the Caliphs, carried their arms 
all over Western and Central Asia, as well as over parts of 
Africa and Europe. Wherever they went, the inhabitants were 
compelled either to accept the Koran, which is the Bible of 
Mohammedanism, or to pay tribute. Even China, that vast 
empire in Eastern Asia, was an inviting field for their energies. 
It is stated that under Walid, the twelfth Caliph, and con- 
temporary of Jui Tsung, the Dragon Throne was promised to the 
first general who should reach China. In the course of a 
very few years, his general, Kaitaba, conquered the whole of 
Bokhara, Khwarizm, and Transoxiana, as far as the frontier 
of China. What made him withdraw from before the city of 
Yorktend (^ H) is still a mystery. 

But where the sword failed, commerce succeeded. Within 
the Arabian settlements along the southern coast of China, there 
soon sprang up magnificent mosques. It is even claimed that an 
uncle of [Mohammed had himself visited Canton. It was not until 



160 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

the time of the Mongol emperors, however, that large numbers of 
Turkish and Tartar Moslems dominated the Shen-Kan provinces. 
To-day, the '" Hui Hui " are estimated at between twenty 
and thirty millions. That Islam is known under the Chinese 
name of Hui Hui Chiao (M |fe) remains without a satisfactory 
explanation; but the simplest theory is that it derived its name 
from the Ouigurs who first embraced the faith during the T'ang 
Dynasty. 

Governmental Supervision. — The best evidence of the ab- 
solute character of the government set up by the T'angs is the fact 
that its hand was felt even in the province of religion. As soon 
as persecution ceased, strict regulation began. The appointment 
of secular officers over large religious bodies has already been 
alluded to. No monk could be admitted into any monastery 
until he had received a certificate from the government. This 
was true of both Buddhism and Taoism. A church without an 
image was naturally looked upon with suspicion, and the Arabs 
were permitted to retain their mode of worship only by their 
agreeing to keep within their premises a tablet of the emperor. 
This custom is still in vogue with the " Hui Hui " of the 
present day; although, in many cases, on the back of the tablet 
may be found the name of the Prophet. 

Age of Poetry. — We will now turn our attention to the 
province of literature. Of this period. Mr. Giles in his book, 
entitled " Chinese Literature," writes as follows : — 

|) " The Tang Dynasty is usually associated in Chinese minds 
with much romance of love and war, with wealth, culture and 
refinement, with frivolty, extravagance, and dissipation; but 
most of all with poetry. China's best efforts in this direction 
were chiefly produced within the limits of its three hundred 
years' duration, and they have been carefully preserved as finished 
models for future poets of all generations. 

' The ' Complete Collection of the poetry of the T'ang 
Dynasty' (£ M ft %), published in 1707, contains 48,900 poems of 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



161 



all kinds, arranged in 900 books, and filling thirty good sized 
volumes. Some Chinese writers divide the dynasty into three 
poetical periods, called Early (iJJJg), Glorious (&£ Jg) , and Late 
(BftJg) : and they profess to detect in the works assigned to each 
the corresponding characteristics of growth, fulness and decay. 
For general purposes, it is only necessary to state that since the 
days of the Hans the meanings of words had gradually come to 
be more definitely fixed, and the structural arrangement more 
uniform and more polished. Imagination began to come more 
freely into play, and the language to flow more easily and more 
musically as though responsive to the demands of art. A Chinese 
poem is at best a hard nut to crack, expressed as it usually is in 
lines of five or seven monosyllabic root ideas, without inflection, 
agglutination, or grammatical indication of any kind, the con- 
nection between which has to be inferred by the reader from 
the logic, from the context, and least perhaps of all from the 
syntactical arrangement of the words. Then, again, the poet is 
hampered not only by rhyme but also by tone. For purposes of 
poetry the characters in the Chinese language are all arranged in 



! 






^yp^ 


wUEakmki&& ~~\X'-- 
















'imBtS^ ^wl§&m 








} ^SBK^S^^^^^^^^SBBm 








W&s^- ''WmBi 








i f/t%j/ 'A'4?a ^ "^Eife "*-*s35si«*5i3S^H 








IBbr! <. ' '^ '*^Sm 








I^H^H^^hp't^^^ 


















sl^iMwwl 


Ir^Mrl] 




YW^WMl0^^Mgh 


2 re^V ill 


wEBmi& 


WW 





Tu Fu's Temple 



162 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

two tones, as Flats and Sharps." These occupy fixed positions in 
each verse. 

The list of the famous T'ang poets is a very long one. By 
general consent, Iyi Pai (3* 6) (705-762) and his contemporary, 
Tu Fu (*t ft) (712-770), are the two greatest poets, not only in 
the dynasty itself, but also in all Chinese history. The political 
condition of the empire at that time and the social life of the 
different branches of the Tartar family, afforded them many 
interesting themes on which to write. 

General Literature- — The T'ang Dynasty contributes very 
little of value to classical scholarship. But in the domain of 
general literature, or prose writing, it again occupies a high 
position. The style of the Six Dynasties, or Chinese poem in 
prose, received a severe blow at the hands of Han Yii, the man 
already referred to as the author of the "Memorial on Buddha's 
Bone." By him, a new style, purer, simpler, and more natural 
was introduced. This new style is no longer burdened with all 
the unnecessary restrictions regarding the length of sentences and 
the tone of words. It leaves more room for original work, and 
permits a freer flow of thought and language. The works of Han 
Yii are still regarded as among the best literary models. Su 
Tung-po (H )ft $) of the Sung (5i<) Dynasty says of him : " By 
his literary efforts the decay of eight dynasties was restored to its 
former glory (X & A ft Z g)." 

No less famous was Han Yii's friend and contemporary, Iyiu 
Tsung-yiian ($P^tg), who was an advocate of the new style. 
The only difference between them was that the works of the 
former were more philosophical than satirical while the reverse 
was true of those of the latter. As Iyi Po and Tu Fu were above 
all others in the domain of Poetry, so Han Yii and Liu Tsung- 
yiian overshadowed others in the province of Prose. 

System of Literary Examinations. — The literary glory of 
the T'angs was doubtless due in no small measure to the fact that 
literary culture constituted the only passport to officialdom. Its 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 163 

systems of literary examinations, based largely on those of the 
previous dynasty, may be divided into three classes : — 

A. Those for the Hsiu Ts'ai Degree (^ #). 

B. Those for the Ming Ching Degree (W Jg). 

C. Those for the Chin Shih Degree (it ±) . 

All these may be called periodic examinations which were 
held at regular intervals at the city of Chang An. Graduates of 
the Government Schools (£ fe) and successful candidates who had 
passed preliminary examinations in the provinces (It l£) were 
permitted to compete at these examinations. Unlike those of 
subsequent times, the degrees were all of the same rank, though 
the Hsiu Ts'ai degree was the most difficult to get. Poems and 
prose specimens were chief factors of the examinations ; but it was 
not unusual to require a candidate to show his knowledge of the 
ancient Classics by filling in the places purposely left blank in 
quotations, or to express his opinions freely on questions of state, 
of administration, and of social reforms. Thus the examinations 
were also used as the means of gathering popular opinion. 

Besides the periodic examinations, Palace examinations 
(ItfiJ^) were held, as often as the government might see fit, for 
11 men of exceptional abilities (^ 1g Z jr) , " and degrees were also 
conferred on law students, methematicians, etc. All examinations 
were held in Chang An, and Physique (£), Oratory (n), 
Penmanship (#), and Knowledge of Official Documents, (#ij), 
completed the necessary qualifications of a successful candidate. 

Education. — Chang An was also the centre of educational 
activities. For the sons of officials above the third grade (ffl 1 ?-^), 
there was one institution which could accommodate 300 men ; 
one for those above the fifth grade vi; &) with accommodations 
for 500; and four more for the sons of other officials Ol f^Q) and 
for the private citizens. There were also special schools where 
arithmetic, law, penmanship and other special subjects were 
taught. Among the students from Japan, Tibet, Corea, and 
other places that flocked into Chang An were some nobles and 
princes of the blood. 



164 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Military System. — With respect to military affairs, the T'ang 
Dynasty may be divided into two periods, viz., the Period of the 
Militia, and the Period of the Standing Army. Under the 
militia system, every man between the ages of twenty and sixty 
was liable to military service. This system was in vogue only 
during the reign of T'ai Tsung and his immediate successors. 
It was the superior discipline rather than organization that made 
the T'ang soldiers once the terror of Eastern Asia. Yiian Tsung 
was the first emperor who kept a standing army of 120,000. These 
were scattered to the four winds in the time of the An Lu-shan 
Rebellion. After the restoration of p^ace there was virtually no 
uniform system ; each governor organized his own army as he saw 
fit. So far as the capital was concerned, its defence rested with 
the eunuchs who were commanders of the imperial guard. 

Among the weapons used mention may be made of the 
Battering Ram (M H i£) and the Scaling Bridge (gift), which 
were not known before the T'ang Dynasty, and which were 
handled after the manner of the Roman siege. A sort of paper 
armor Oft it) was also mentioned in its annals, but no further de- 
tails are extant. 

The Government. — The government of the T k angs did not 
differ much from that of the previous times, the emperor being the 
sole source of power, — the law-giver, chief magistrate, and supreme 
judge, all in one. He was assisted by a Chief Executive Secretary 
(f&#^\), a Chief Councillor (f# 4»), and a Chief Corresponding 
Secretary <?*\ T). After these came multitudes of lesser dignitaries, 
such as Imperial Librarian (1ft ^ !£"), Chamberlain of the House- 
hold Department (^4»M), eunuchs $j f# # (they held official 
rank under the T'ang Dynasty), Censors (ffl jkM), Directors of 
Education (H^S), of Arts (4>Jfrfi), of Mechanics (JHFffsS), of 
Armories (¥»g), of Public Works (iffi*g), of Sacrificial 
Worship (*?£#), of the Imperial Stud UcH#), of State 
Ceremonial (}*f fli #), Judges of the Court of Revision (ic,Jl#), 
and Superintendents of Agriculture and Granaries (U Il#), and 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 165 

of Commerce (ic/fr#). The Presidents of the Six Original 
Boards (*#Rfft#), under the late Ch'ing Dynasty, were then 
but subordinates under the Chief Executive Secretary who was 
aided by two Assistants (£ # ft I*). 

Taxation and Currency. — The system of taxation was a 
poll tax combined with the land tax. No one was allowed to 
own laud, hence the land tax was collected under the name of 
Rent (ffl). In silk producing districts payments were made in 
kind, called Tiao (18;. There was also forced labor (Yung Jf ) • 
Twenty days in a year were required or an equivalent in textiles 
reckoned at three feet per day. Customs dues and duties were of 
later date. During the days of the decline, the government was 
dependent upon the revenue derived from the salt monopoly and 
from tea, the latter now forming a staple export. At one time, 
gold, silver, or cash found on the person of a merchant or traveler 
was subject to taxation on the same basis as goods. Marts were 
established in all principal cities, and in each of these was 
stationed an officer whose duty it was to see that the standard 
measures and weights were used. 

The copper cash was the unit of all business transactions, 
and the first of these minted under this dynasty is much admired 
for its workmanship. It bore the four characters K'ai Yuan T'ung 
Po (J3 7C M. 1$), and ten of them weighed four ounces. It is stated 
that as soon as these cash were put into circulation, they were 
destroyed by the people in order to obtain copper for making 
images of Buddha. Cash famines became frequent and led to the 
somewhat unsuccessful experiment with paper currency (^ : ?) 
towards the end of the dynasty. 

Dress. — The T'angs discarded the long and loose garments of 
the Hans, and adopted the Tartar style. Leather boots came 
more and more into favor. Official rank was denoted by the 
colour of the costumes. After the Imperial Yellow, came the 
Purple (g), the Crimson (ffi) , the Green (&), and the Black (#), 
each color representing two grades. The ranks extended from 



10(5 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

the Second to the Ninth, which was the lowest. The most 
curious feature of the official costume was probably the two so- 
called ; ' Fish Caskets " (M, *5) , suspended from the girdle. They 
contained the two halves of a " tarry," and no official could be 
admitted into the imperial palace without producing the " tarry " 
at the gate. Women had to be heavily veiled when they went into 
the street, the Hsia P'ei (if ifofc) being the mark of distinction for a 
married woman. The Wu Shakuan (&$$*£) was the popular 
head wear for the literary and official classes. 

Social Life. — Tea became the commonest beaverage. The 
use of wine was also general; the "grape wine" (^^H?S), 
according to the poets, was the most favored drink. Bars with a 
sort of flag (?S t&) flying over the roof of the building were 
numerous in cities as well as rural districts. As a matter of fact, 
the best poets were the worst drunkards ; and both I v i Po and Tu 
Fu died from the excessive use of liquor. Music and dancing 
girls became prominent in all social functions, and the better 
classes kept their own bands of dancing girls (If £&) . Commanders 
of armies were permitted to carry such bands with them when 
on the march. Dice, cards, chess, and other contests of chance 
and of judgment were popular amusements at home, while horse 
races, cock-fights, and athletic exercises were the open-air sports. 
Bronze mirrors were highly appreciated, and it was considered 
proper for the courtiers to present them to the emperor on 
his birthday. 

Conclusion. — From the above sketch it may be seen that 
the China of the T'ang Dynasty became an asylum for all peoples 
who suffered on account of their faith. On this account the best 
ability of the surrounding countries was brought into Chang An. 
In addition to what the natural skill of the Chinese was able to 
produce for the necessities and comforts of their people, and in 
addition to the improvement they were able to make on the 
ancient rudiments of science and art, foreign training, skill, and 
influence went a long way toward creating their civil greatness. 
In turn China became the teacher of Asia. Through the channels 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 167 

of war, commerce, and diplomacy, streams of civilization ran into 
the Corean and the Indo-China Peninsulas, into Japan and the 
Islands in the China and Japan Seas. While in some places, 
notably Japan, the tide of progress has risen higher than its 
source, what civilization there is in the Far East to-day may be 
directly or indirectly traced to the China of the T'ang Dynasty. 
Of this dynasty JWells Williams says: " During the two hundred 
and eighty-seven years they held the throne, China was probably 
the most civilized country on earth ; the darkest days of the 
West, when Europe was wrapped in the ignorauce and degrada- 
tion of the Middle Ages, formed the brightest era of the East." 



168 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER XXII 
THE FIVE DYNASTIES (AD. 907-960) 

The Period. — We have now come to a period of anarchy, or 
military despotism, when the Chinese throne became the prize 
among successful generals. It is commonly spoken of as the 
''Epoch of the Five Dynasties." These dynasties followed 
one another in rapid succession within the brief period of 
fifty years. None of them exercised control over the whole 
of China; and the so-called empires, varying in size under the 
different dynasties, were confined to the Yellow River Basin, 
hemmed in by the Khitans in the north and surrounded by a 
number of semi-independent states in the south. Three of the 
dynasties were of Turkish origin, and their destiny to a large 
extent was in the hands of the Khitans. China not being in a 
position to offer a united front to a foreign foe, the time was 
most favorable for the development of the Tartars, and this 
led ultimately to the domination of China by the Mongols, 
the most important of the Tartar tribes. 

The Posterior Liang Dynasty (ft m) (A.D. 907-923).— 
The first of the Five Dynasties was the Posterior Liang, which 
was so named in order to distinguish it from Liang of the Epoch 
of Division between the North and the South. The Posterior 
Liang was founded by Chu Wen (3c?&). The territory over 
which his sway extended was bounded by the Yellow River 
on the north, the Gulf of Pechihli on the east, the Ching (M) and 
Wei (fl) rivers on the west, and the Yangtze (M 1 ^) and the 
Han fg|) on the south. It was his ambition to cripple the power 
of Li K'o-yung ($■ ^ #}), Prince of Tsin (Modern Shansi) . For 
this purpose he formed an alliance with the king of Yen ($£), now 
that part of Chihli province around Peking. For a time, the 
allies were masters of the situation. W 7 hile they were besieging 
Lu Chow 0$'>l'l), a frontier town in Shansi, Li K'o-yung died, 
leaving his son, Ts'un Hsu (#IS), at the head of affairs. The 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY L69 

young prince not only routed the besieging army before the 
walls of the city; but, before many years had elapsed, he also 
took the offensive against his father's foes. He singled out the 
state of Yen, and wiped it out of existence in 913. 

"I wish I could have a son like Li Ya-tzu ($ 3£ =£ ) ; I see 
my enemy is not dead," exclaimed Chu Wen, when he saw the 
ability displayed by Ts'un Hsu (^^D^ffi^ffi*?^). And the 
contrast between his own sons and the one he thus admired, had 
everything to do with the final issue between the two rivals, 
Li K'o-yung and Chu W6n. The latter died in 912 at the 
hands of one of his sons whom he had tried to disinherit. The 
murderer was murdered in turn by his brother, Yu Chen (fc M.) , 
who succeeded him and is known as the Mo Ti (^#), or Last 
Emperor of his house. It is hardly necessary to say that Mo Ti 
was no match for Ts'un Hsii. When the latter appeared before 
Ta Liang (^c $£), the capital of the Posterior Liang Dynasty, the 
emperor wept in despair and ordered his attendants to kill him. 
This order was duly carried out, and with his death, the house 
founded by Chu W r en came to an end after lasting seventeen 
years. 

The Posterior Tang Dynasty.— This was the dynasty 
founded by Ts'un Hsii and was of Turkish origin. The Turks 
were mostly without names. It had been the custom with the 
T'ang emperors to confer the imperial family name, Li, on those 
who had distinguished themselves by deeds of valor, whether 
they were Tartars, Turks, Turcomans, or Ouigurs. One of those 
who had been fortunate enough to receive the name, was Ts'un 
Hsu's grandfather; and, now in memory of his grandfather's 
benefactor, he named the dynasty T'ang, and made Lo Yang his 
capital. He had enlarged the boundaries of the old Liang 
empire by the addition of Yen and Tsin, and it was then further 
enlarged by the annexation of Ch'i ((£) and Szu (^), the former 
with the consent of its people and the latter by conquest. 
Dreading his power, the chief of Chin Nan (M ]|j Mn came to 



170 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



render him homage ; and the Kings of Ch'u ($£), Wn f^), 
Wn Yiieh (^jfeS), and Han (&) sent him tribute. 

As regards his private character, Ts'un Hsu was more fit 
for the calling of an actor than anything else. He frequently 
blackened himself and played on the stage in order to please 
I^iu (fij 5*c A), his favorite lady. Wrestling and hunting were also 
his favorite amusements. After a short reign of three years, he 
was murdered by a eunuch and was succeeded by an adopted son 
of his father. This was Ming Ti ($| #), the illiterate emperor to 
whom all state documents had to be read and explained. Still 
his reign of eight years was considered the best part of this 
dynasty. It was his custom to say his prayer to Heaven at night 
for the gift of an emperor more fit to rule in China than himself, 
" a man of Turkish descent (& ft] A)." The dynasty was termi- 
nated in 936 by Shih Ching-t'ang OHIft^i), who was the son- 
in-law of Ming Ti. 

The Posterior Tsin Dynasty.— (A. D. 936-946).— Shih 
Ching-t'ang owed his throne entirely to the Khitans. To antic- 
ipate the attempt of Lu Wang ($f3E), 
the last ruler of the preceding house, he 
appealed to the Khitans for help, and with 
their 50,000 soldiers he defeated the 
army that had been sent to capture him 
and took Lo Yang, where ho Wang 
committed suicide. Out of gratitude he 
ceded to the Khitans sixteen districts of 
the territory now in Chihli and Shansi 
provinces, agreed to send them every year 
300,000 pieces of silk, and to address their 
chief, whenever he had an occasion to do 
so, as his "Father. " As a matter of fact, 
this ephemeral dynasty only existed at 
the pleasure of the Khitan Chief, or the 
"Father Emperor." The successor of 
Shih Ching-t'ang (943-946) incurred the 



p 


s^i^i 




%$& 


If* 


J^7i*%&> 


mm 
mm 


^K H~ .-fc. 


, L . r -=£r 


T-1 •LJ A~ t£» 


^#.^ 


B^fS 


%i± 


□ s&Jkl 


& rp it 


5$ .£. i? # 


$ A. # 


r? t4M 






xx4' 




** % 


* k"± 


^mj&g 


m^M 


%■ *#^ 


mk 




■ 


I 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 171 

displeasure of his "grand father" through his own insolence, and 
as a consequence was sent a prisoner into the land of the 
Khitans. 

The Posterior Han Dynasty. — The Posterior Han was one 
of four years' duration, and the shortest of the Five Dynasties. 
Liu Chih-yuau (gij fci 3l) , its founder, was formerly a general 
under the Posterior Tsiu Dynasty. When the Khitans overran 
the country he submitted; but, as soon as their main force was 
withdrawn, he drove out the weak garrison they had left behind 
them and took the vacant throne for himself. Through the 
inability of his son who succeeded him a year later, the empire fell 
into the hands of a»genetal named Kuo Wei (llSJgfc), the idol of 
the people on account of his success in an expedition against 
the Khitans. 

The Posterior Chou Dynasty (A.D. 951-960) .—The 
dynasty established by Kuo Wei was the Posterior Chou; but he 
did not come into possession of the whole empire. A member of 
the house of Liu, named Liu Ch'ung (!?ij ^), had set up a state 
called North Han (^b^), in the central part of what is now 
Shansi province. This state backed up by the Khitans remained a 
thorn in the emperor's side. The second emperor, Shih Tsuug 
(i£ t£), w r as an ambitious man, who extended the boundaries of his 
empire at the expense of the state of Nan T'ang ($j Jtr), with its 
capital at Nanking, in the south, and recovered a part of the 
territory ceded to the Khitans as far north as the Pass of Hu 
Ch'iao Kuan (5H§ H). The general who rose to fame under him 
was Chao K'uang-yin (ffi ULE), afterwards the T'ai Tsu (.-MjkM.) 
of the Sung Dynasty. When Chao was leading an expedition 
against the Khitans, a mutiny occurred at Ch'en Ch'iao ($£f^), a 
place about six miles to the northeast of the modern city of 
Kaifeng, and resulted in the elevation of Chao to the throne. To 
his credit, he spared the life of the emperor Kung Ti (tf£ifr), Shih 
Tsung's son. 

Invention of Block Printing. — The only event worth 
recording in this dark age was the invention of the art of block 



172 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

printing- by Feng Tao (M St) in the reign of Ming Ti of the 
Posterior T'angr Dynasty. The Nine Classics were for the first 
time cut in wood, but the work was not completed until 953. 
As an illustration of the character of the age, it is interesting to 
note that the inventor of this art served no less than ten emperors 
representing four different lines. Loyalty was then at its lowest 
ebb. Proud of the honors that had been heaped upon him, he 
gave himself the sobriquet of Chang Lo Lao (:&!g5g), or 
il Gentleman of Pleasure." 

Early History of the Khitans. — The Khitans were a people 
of Tung Hu (i£#L descent. Their original home was in the 
territory watered by the Huang Ho (iM), or the eastern part of 
Inner Mongolia. The decline of the Great T'ang Dynasty saw 
their gradual expansion towards the south. Their country was 
then divided into eight tribes each ruled by a chieftain. By 
turns the chieftains became kings for a period of three years. 
Apoki 07 \%W), one of the periodic kings, held the scepter for the 
first time in 907. During his tenure of office, he made several 
raids into China, forced a large number of Chinese to enter his 
service, and taught his people to build walled cities after the 
Chinese pattern. When his term expired, he absolutely refused 
to vacate the office; but, at the end of his ninth year on the throne, 
he yielded to the demand of the other chieftains. He then 
obtained permission to live in Ku Han Ch'eng (■£ $| ^), near Jehol 
($h M), with his Chinese friends. The new territory was not only 
more suited to agricultural purposes, but also possessed a number 
of salt lakes and continued to attract more Chinese settlers. 

In 916, Apoki by a coup d^'etat caused all his fellow-chieftains 
to be put to death, and thereupon assumed the imperial title for 
himself. From this time forth he began to lead a career of 
conquest. Both the Nii-chen (icm.) and the Shih Wei (^ ^) along 
the Amur River ( JS f£ tH) , the Ouigurs (0 $&) and the Tangut 
(H*£) who inhabited the territory about Kokonor (#$&), and the 
P'o Hai (M ^) who held sway in that part of modern Manchuria 
lying between Moukdeu and the Sungari River, were one by one 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 17:; 

subdued by him. Being a sworn brother of I v i K'o-yung, he 
caused the latter but little trouble. What his son, Te Kuang 
(&3fe), did in helping Shih Ching-t'ang to bring about the over- 
throw of the Posterior T'ang has been related in connection with 
the Posterior Tsin. By Te Kuang was the name Liao (M) 
(meaning "Iron") adopted. At the end of the period of 
the Five Dynasties, the Khitans had become the owners of both 
Mongolia and Manchuria and the overlords of the Tibetans in the 
west and the Coreans in the east. China at that time was known 
in the Old World by the name they bore, and Kitai for China is 
still retained in the Russian language to the present day. 



174 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER XXIII 
THE SUNG DYNASTY PROPER (A.D. 960-1127) 

The Sung Dynasty Proper. — The period usually called 
the Sung Dynasty, covers the second era in Chinese history 
when the country was completely at the mercy cf barbarians. 
Like the Tsin (W) Dynasty, it ruled over the whole of China 
for only a brief period, then it suffered the northern half to 
fall into the hands of barbarians; and, with great difficulty, 
maintained a semblance of power south of the Yangtze. The 
barbarians that overran North China at this time were the 
Khitans, the Kins and the Mongols. The dynasty conveniently 
divides itself into two parts, the Sung Dynasty Proper and the 
Southern Sung. The landmarks of the first part are the reunion 
of China and the capture of Ch'in Tsung {$k *S) by the Kins. 

End of Military Despotism. — With the establishment of a 
new dynasty by Chao K'uang-yin, the military despotism was 
destined to come to an end. The first question that arose to tax 
the constructive statesmanship of the new emperor, was how the 
condition of affairs that had paved the way for him to the throne 
should be terminated. To quote his own words, he "could not 
sleep peacefully after his elevation to the throne" lest "the 
yellow Robe " might some day be placed on one of his old com- 
rades as it had been done in his case. At a banquet, he gathered 
all of them around him and told them that he was going to 
appoint them as military governors in the provinces. At this 
hint, all of them resigned their command in the imperial army 
and gladly accepted the promised appointments. Thus Chao 
K'uang-yin succeeded in getting rid of the presence of military 
magnates, the source of his uneasiness. 

The next question was how he could deprive the military 
governors of their traditional powers. This he brought about by 
the appointment of imperial agents to collect taxes and to act as 
civil magistrates. These were required to make their reports 
direct to the throne, and the military governors had to send their 
best soldiers to do duty by turns at the capital. In short, with 
the advice of Chao P'u (^ x #), his prime minister, Chao K'uang-yin 
established a strong central government, subordinating the 
military to the civil power throughout the entire official system 



100 110 120 



130 



L4r0° 



150 
— "^ — 7- 



160 



THE SUNG AND CHIN DYNASTIES 

Scale, 1: 35,000,000 

-J 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



175 




CHAO K'UANG-YIN 



which he introduced. Chao now ruled as an absolute monarch, 
and no one was privileged to sit in his presence. Even the 

prime minister could not retain 
his seat, as had previously been the 
case while discussing questions with 
the sovereign; and, in place of 
personal discussion, everything had 
to be submitted to the emperor in 
writing. With little modification, 
the form of government that he set 
up came down to modern times 
with the result that the position of 
a soldier is far from being an envi- 
able one. 
Reunion of China. — Having established his authority within 
his domain, Chao K'uang-yiu began to extend the boundaries in 
all directions. Of the older states, Kin, Wu and Szu were 
among the first to be annexed. Nan Han followed in 971 and 
Xan T'ang, the amalgamation of Min, Ch'u and Wu, four years 
later. By the time of his death, he had wiped out every state 
with the exception of North Han, the ally of the Khitans. 

The following table will show the names of the states in 
question and the dates of their rise and fall. 

When and by whom annexed. 
United with Later T'ang in 923 
Conquered by Later T'ang 924 



Name. 

Tsin 

Ch'i 

Szu 

Later Szu 

Wu 

Ch'u 

Min 

Nan T'ang 

Wu Ytieh 

Chin Xan 

Xan Han 



When set up. 
907 
907 
907 
935 
910 
907 
907 
937 
907 
907 
915 



Sung 




963 


Nan T'ai 


g 


937 


n n 




951 


n n 
Sung 




94 5 
975 


1 1 




978 


) » 




963 

971 



176 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Accession of T'ai Tsung. — T'ai Tsung who succeeded Chao 
K'uang-yin in 976 was his yonuger brother. Their mother on her 
deathbed had exacted a promise from Chao K'uang-yin to the ef- 
fect that he would make his brother, T'ai Tsung, heir, provided 
the latter in turn would give the throne to the third brother, 
K'uang-mei. It was in accordance with this arrangement that 
T'ai Tsung now came to the throne. He, however, did not carry 
out his part of the agreement, the throne after his death going to 
his son. 

The most important events that took place in the reign of 
the second emperor of the dynasty were the secession of Tonquin 
in Indo-China from the Chinese Kmpire and the commencement 
of hostilities with the Khitans. 

Secession of Tonquin. — Tonquin had been a part of the 
Protectorate of Annam, and hence it was called Annam in 
Chinese. During the period of Five Dynasties, it was a part of 
Nan T'ang, until its annexation in 971. In 980 a revolt took 
place in Annam, and it became the duty of T'ai Tsung to send 
soldiers there with a view to restoring order. The army that he 
sent entered Tonquin by way of Nan Ning and Lien Chow ; but 
the tropical heat was such that the Chinese soldiers were obliged 
to return in the following year without having accomplished any 
thing more than the leaving of a great number of sick behind 
them. From this time forth, Annam ceased to be an integral 
part of China, although it continued to pay tribute to the Chinese 
emperor until it became a French possession in 1884. 

Beginning of the War with the Khitans. — Operations to 
subdue the state of North Han had been commenced by Chao 
K'uang-yin ; but, owing to his death, the final conquest did not 
take place until 979. In the year previous T'ai Tsung had the 
good fortune to rout a Khitan regiment which had been sent to 
the assistance of their ally. Encouraged by the success thus 
achieved, he thought the time had come for him to recover the 
sixteen districts that had been ceded to them by Shih Ching- 
t'ang. Accordingly he gave his men no rest after the fall of T'ai 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 177 

Yuan, the capital of North Han; but led them immediately to in- 
vest Yn Chow ($HH), one of the sixteen districts mentioned. 
On the Ko Liang- River, severe fighting took place between the 
Chinese and the Khitans, and the latter were so completely 
victorious that T'ai Tsung, abandoning everything he had to the 
enemy, had to fly for his life. 

Six years later, he made a second attempt to invade the land 
of the Khitans. It was on a much larger scale, but the emperor 
did not accompany it himself. The expedition consisted of four 
armies under the command of Ts'ao Pin (W^), a general who 
had made a name for himself in connection with the Kiang Nan 
campaign. For a time, the prospect was very hopeful, and 
several frontier cities were recovered. At Ch'i Kou Kuan (fl£ $tU), 
however, the Khitans made a stand and Ts'ao Pin received a 
crushing defeat, which was followed by the loss of two additional 
districts, Cho ($0 and I (.g), in the years 988 and 989 respectively, 
and by the subjugation of the Nu-chen country and Corea by the 
Khitans. With their eyes once opened to the weakness of the 
great empire lying to the south of their territory, the Khitans 
no longer remained on the defensive, but began to make periodic 
inroads into the Chinese territory. During the remainder of the 
reign of T'ai Tsung they gave him but little peace. 

Peace of Tan Chow. — In 1004, the Khitans again came into 
China in great numbers, accompanied by their chief and his 
mother. City after city fell into their hands, and before long they 
had penetrated as far south as the city of T'an Chow (W- ffl) on the 
Yellow River. Pien Liang (?£ Jg) ', the capital of the Sung Empire, 
was seized with consternation. One party advocated the removal 
of the court to Nanking, while another suggested the city of 
Chengtu as being more favorably situated. At length the more 
sagacious counsel of K'ou Chun (W£) prevailed and a considerable 
force was sent to the rescue of T'an Chow. At the head of the 
rescuing army, marched the young emperor, Chen Tsung (m, ^), 
son of T'ai Tsung, who had died six years previous. The sight 
of the emperor gave the garrison new spirit, and loud cheers 



178 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



greeted him from the city walls as he drew near. But the emperor, 
who was too timid to risk a battle, sued for peace. The terms were 
so far from being favorable to China that she was required to pay 
100,000 ounces of silver and 200,000 pieces of Chinese silk every 
year to the Khitans. As regards the mode of correspondence, it 
was provided that the Chinese Emperor was to be addressed as 
"Elder Brother," and the Khitan Chief as " Younger Brother." 

After the peace was made, the Khitans continued to grow in 
power, extending the limits of their country to the Kerulou 
River on the north, the city of T'an Chow on the south, the Sea 
on the east, and the Tien Shan Ranges on the west. They had 
five capitals within their territory, viz., Shan Ching at Ling 
Huang, Tung Ching at Liao Yang, Chung Chin, at Ta Ching, 
Nan Ching at Peking and Hsi Chin at Tai Tung. 




A Tangut horseman, painted by Chao Tung 
13th Century, A.D. (" Chinese Art ") 



Early History of Hsi Hsia.— The reign of Jen Tsung (iz 
%), the next emperor, 1023-63, saw the Sung empire further 
impoverished by its wars with a new power in the northwest, 
— Hsi Hsia (ffi 5), as it was called in Chinese. This was a nation 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



17l> 



of Tangut descent, and its early history dates as far back as the 
glorious days of the great T'ang Dynasty. Persecuted by the 
Tibetans, the Tanguts appealed to T'ai Tsung (of the T'ang 
Dynasty) and received permission to settle in the northeastern 
part of Shan si, and retain their tribal form of Government under 
a chieftain chosen from amongst them. When the formidable 
rebellion of Wang Ch'ao broke out, the Tanguts were on the side 
of the T'angs. In return for their services, Toba Ssu Kung 
(fti& © H), their chieftain, was not only given the title of Duke 
of Hsia, but also the imperial family name of Li. 

When the Sungs came into power, they made the Duke of 
Hsia change his name from Li to Chao. The new name, 
however, did not make him more friendly to the Chinese; and 
besides, the chief of the Khitans was just as anxious to cultivate 
his friendship as the Sung emperor. So long as the nation 
remained weak, the Duke found it to his interest always to keep 
on the side of the stronger of the two rivals, and so he paid 
tribute now to the one and then to the other. 

Hsi Hsia at the Height of her Power — 

It was under the leadership of Yuan Hao 
( % |t) , that Hsi Hsia attained to the zenith 
of her power. He was a contemporary of 
Jen Tsung. and came to the Tangut throne 
in 1032, or the 10th year of the latter's 
reign. He not only give his people a system* 
of writing of their own, but also raised Hsi 
Hsia to the rank of a first class Asiatic state, 
after driving the Ouigurs out of their home 
in Ho Hsi, the territory west of the Yellow 
River. With a standing army of < 500,000 and 
with considerably extended boundaries, Yuan 
Hao assumed an imperial title, calling himself 




* One of the languages of the famous inscription of Chu Yang Kuan is the 
Tangut, the system introduced by Yuan Hao. The other languages are Chinese. 
Mongol. Nii-chen, Ouigen, and Sanskrit. 



180 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Emperor of Great Hsia, and began to make incursions into the 
Sung empire. In spite of a strong Chinese garrison at Yen Chow 
(SjW), now Yen An, Shansi, the Tanguts continued to ravage 
the surrounding country to such an extent that it was found 
cheaper to purchase immunity from them than to prolong the war. 
Therefore, when peace was made in 1043, it was provided that 
the Sung emperor should give to the Tanguts each year, 250,000 
ounces of silver, 250,000 pieces of silk, and 250,000 catties of 
Chinese tea. Thus in the year 1044, the emperor had to send 
silver, silk, etc., not only to the Khitans, but also to the Tanguts. 
Everything that went to the former was recorded in the Chinese 
annals asa" present," and everything that went to the latter, as 
a "gift." The difference in name was due entirely to the different 
relationships in which the recipients stood to the Chinese emperor, 
for the latter was the "father" of the emperor of Hsia, and 
" Elder Brother" of the Khitan chief. Since the peace of T'an 
Chow the "present' ' had been doubled by a subsequent treaty. 

Reforms of Wang An-shih. — When Shen Tsung (# ^) 
(1068-1085), the second emperor after Jen Tsung (£:!?), 
came to the throne, he found his empire was on the verge of 
bankruptcy. It was well-nigh impossible to raise her to the 

rank of a military power without 
first of all freeing her finances 
from the multitude of courtiers 
about the emperor. There was 
but one [man who was able to 
understand his object. This 
man was the famous Wang An- 
shih (EE3c£i). By his advice, 
the following reforms were in- 
troduced by Shen Tsung. 

1. The system of State Ad- 
vances to Fanners (#©?£). 
Under this system an}' farmer in 
need of money for purposes of 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 181 

cultivation could obtain a loan from the government at 2 per cent. 
interest per month, repayable at the time of harvest. 

2. The Income Tax. This tax was levied on all classes of 
society and it was to take the place of the forced manual labor 
under the older laws. 

3. The Nationalization of Commerce. By this law, depots 
for bartering- and hypothecating goods on property were established 
throughout the empire. 

In addition to these reforms in financial measures, Wang 
An-shih was also the author of two schemes which were calculated 
to give the nation better soldiers. They were as follows : 

A. The Militia Act, or a system of tithing for military, 
purposes. Under this plan, the population of each district was 
divided into units of ten families, called Po, with a headman over 
each of them, one of higher rank over every fifty, and one of still 
higher rank over every five hundred families. Each family where 
there were more than two males was required to supply one to act 
as soldier in time of war and a policeman in time for peace. 

B. A system of guaranteeing a Supply of Cavalry-horses in 
case of need. Every family was compelled to keep a horse which 
was supplied by the government. 

Of all the reforms mentioned, the System of State Advance 
was the most unpopular. Nevertheless, Wang An-shih enjoyed 
the full confidence of the emperor, and it was enforced with an 
iron hand in face of stout opposition, which meant nothing less 
than dismissal from office. Although the mother of the emperor 
went against the reformer, it was of no effect. At last, a comet 
was observed by the imperial astronomer, and Wang An-shih 
was accused by the conservative party of having been its cause. 
The superstition of the age was such that the emperor was 
obliged to retire him ; but, in less than a year, the reformer was 
reinstated. The comet having disappeared in the meantime. 

Foreign Policy of Shen Tsung.— To regain Touquin, 
to cripple the power of Hsi Hsia, and to expel the Khitans from 



182 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

China, — all these were evidently included in the plan of Shen 
Tsung; bnt the end of his reign brought him no nearer the 
realization of his ambition. 

Since the Annamese had faithfully paid the tribute due the 
Chinese emperor, there was no excuse for war. Shen Tsung, 
however, forbade his subjects to carry on trade with the 
Annamese. Enraged by the conduct of the emperor, they broke 
into China in 1075 in great numbers on the pretext that they had 
come to relieve their neighbor of the unjust laws introduced by 
Wang An-shih. While the invaders were forced to retreat before 
overwhelming numbers, the loss on the Chinese side was by 
no means slight. It was estimated that from sickness alone, the 
Chinese lost more than 40,000 men. It is hardly necessary 
to say that the Annamese refused to pay any further tribute. 

As regards Hsi Hsia, Shen Tsung was again to blame for 
the outbreak of fresh hostilities. Without any justification, 
he ordered one general to take Chu Chow and another to march 
into the territory between the Yellow River and the Nieh, then 
in the hands of the Tibetans. His object was to prevent the 
Tibetans from coming to the aid of the Tanguts, and in so doing 
he not only terminated the treaty of 1043, but also aroused the 
hatred of a new enemy no less formidable than the Tanguts 
themselves. 

While troubles were brewing in the west, the Khitans came 
forward with a demand for further extension of their territory. 
They knew the Sung empire was then in no position to declare 
war. This Wang An-shih also realized, and he advised the 
emperor to accede to their request. As the latter was completely 
under his influence, the land was ceded as demanded. "Since 
we are going to take more from them," added Wang An-shih, 
11 it can do no harm to give them a little now." But what was 
ceded then was for ever lost to the Sung empire and the reforms 
of Wan An-shih only left the country poorer and weaker than 
it had been. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



183 



Defeat of the Conservative Party.— The death of Sheii 
Tsung left the throne to his son, Che Tsnng (A.D. 1086-1100), 
then a boy of ten. During his minority, his grandmother was 
the regent ; and it was a period of political reaction when the 
reforms of Wang An-shih were one by one superseded by better 
laws and his followers dismissed from the government. At the 
head of the opposition party stood Ssu Ma Kuang, the famous 
Chinese historian, whose return to power was an occasion of 
national rejoicing. The triumph of the party, however, was of 
brief duration. With the assumption of power by Chd Tsung 
in 1094, the reform party again secured the upper hand in the 
government. The tablet of Wang An-shih, who had died in the 
meantime, was by imperial order placed by the side of that 
of Confucius ; and a stone pillar, on which was engraved the names 
of the "clique of traitors," was erected in front of the palace. 
This "Traitor Pillar," as it was called, contained the names of 
Ssu Ma Kuang and 308 of his friends. 

Development of Chinese Pictorial Art. — The next reign, 
that of Hui Tsnng (A.D. 1101-1126) , formed an important epoch 
in the history of Chinese pictorial art, the emperor himself being 
a painter of no mean ability. He is famous for his pictures of 

white falcons and other 
birds ; and the Hsiian Ho 
Hua Pu, or Collection of 
Painting of the Hsiian Ho 
Palace (one of the palaces 
of Hui Tsung) , published 
in tweenty volumes in the 
second year of the reign 
of Hsiian Ho, is the most 
important work of its kind 
that has been handed down 
to us. It is stated that this 
emperor spared no effort 
to collect antiquities and 




18 1 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

objects of art ; but most of his collections were either destroyed 
or lost in 1126, when he was carried a prisoner into Manchuria 
where he died. 

iVccording to Chinese authorities, it was under the early 
emperors of the Sung Dynasty that Chinese pictorial art attained 
the highest point of development, at least so far as the painting 
of landscapes was concerned. Painting was not a profession, but 
the means by which a cultured writer was able to express his 
thought and to illustrate his genius. Many poets of the time, 
notably So Tung-po, were excellent painters. They wrote their 
verses with the same brush that later drew pictures of the inspir- 
ing scenery. 

The most important event of Hui Tsung's reign was 
undoubtedly the alliance he formed with the Chins and its 
consequence. An account of this will be found in the next 
chapter in connection with the rise of the Chins. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 185 



CHAPTER XXIV 
THE RISE OF THE CHINS AND THE SOUTHERN SUNG DYNASTY 

Early History of the Chins. — East of the territory of the 
Liao, in the part of Kirin province which is watered by the Sungari 
River, was the home of a branch of the Tartar family whom the 
Chinese called the "Nu-chen Tribes" (-k&). This name dates as 
far back as the year 923 when a powerful nation known as P'o Hai 
(ffll %$) was annexed by the Khitans. Before that time we find the 
people spoken of as the I-lo (JS M) hi the Han Dynasty, the 
Wu-chi (&§) in the Wei, and the Mo-ho (HIS), in the T'ang. 
Of the different Mo-ho tribes was P'o Hai made up. When they 
ceased to exist as an independent nation, those living south and 
west of the Sungari were called Shu (civilized) Nu-chens (jfc ic Hi) ; 
and their brethren living east of the river. Sheng (uncivilized) 
Nu-chens (£. "k &), the latter being permitted by the Khitans to retain 
a form of tribal government. It was the Uncivilized Nu-chens that 
were destined to have their revenge upon the Khitans. 

Nothing of note was recorded about the Nu-chens until Akutta 
(W#*T) (A.D. 1069-1123), a man of great daring and ability, 
succeeded to the chieftainship. In 1114 he threw off his allegiance, 
captured Nin-kan-chow, and defeated a superior force that the Liao 
emperor sent against him. This success enboldencd Akutta to such 
an extent that he took the title of emperor in the following year, and 
became the founder of the " Golden Enclosure," or Aisin Kurun 
iftM§bW)i which was translated into "Chin Kuo " in Chinese. 
From this time forth, the conflict between the houses of Iron 
(Liao) and Gold (Chin) was fierce and incessant. Upon the fall of 
die stronghold of Huang Lung Fu ( J! ft /ft), T'ien Tsu Oi ffi) t the 
last emperor of the Khitans, decided to meet the rising foe in person. 
Gathering an army of 700,000 men he crossed the river, but only to 
meet with defeat. Akutta now came into possession of Tung Ching 
CM. 3jO, one of their Five Capitals with all its outlaying districts, as 



ISO OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

well as the whole of the country inhabited by the Civilized Nu-chens. 
The Liao emperor promptly sued for peace, but Akutta was not 
ready to grant it. 

Alliance between the Chins and the Chinese —The birth 
of a new nation in the north was not at all unwelcome to Hui Tsung, 
especially since the new nation had proved themselves to be a powerful 
enemy of the Khitans. Your enemy's enemy is always your friend. 
If an understanding could be arrived at between the new nation in the 
north and the Sung empire in the south, the Liao kingdom could 
simply be ground to pieces. And Hui Tsung was not slow to realize 
the situation. Between the two future allies, an exchange of 
embassies soon took place. By the treaty of 1120, it was provided 
that the parties to it were to undertake operations simultaneously, 
one attacking the Khitans from the northeast and the other from 
the south. In case of success, it was stipulated that the sixteen 
districts which had been ceded by China to the Khitans, should be 
restored to her, provided that she gave to the Chins the amount of 
silver and silk paid annually to the Khitans. 

Since the overthrow of the Khitans was necessary to the carry- 
ing out of the terms of this treaty, Akutta again took the field against 
them. The army of the latter, which had been a terror in North 
China, had lost its fighting power. Furthermore dissatisfaction 
was rife among the ranks, and many of the Khitan generals deserted 
to Akutta. Both the western and central districts were taken in 1123. 
On hearing of this disaster, T'ien Tsu, the Liao emperor, who was 
then on a hunting trip, tied to Chia Shan (#$ ill). While Akutta led 
soldiers from victory to victory, his allies, the Chinese, suffered a 
crushing defeat in the region of Yen Ching (Peking;, which city 
they were to capture under the agreement. It was not until the 
victorious army appeared before its walls, that Yen Ching fell ; and 
this gave Akutta an excuse for refusing to restore the sixteen 
districts as agreed. After much parleying, he consented to give China 
six of the districts in question, but took care to exact from her an 
additional sum each year of 1,000,000 strings of cash of 1,000 
copper coins each. However, when the date came for China to take 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



187 



possession of these cities the Chinese commissioners found, to their 
dismay, that these were but six empty cities, the Chins having 
removed every thing of value out of them. 

The death of Akutta in the following year did not interrupt 
the campaign. Wuchumai, who succeeded to the throne, proved no 
less a conqueror than his elder brother. Fortune continued to favor 
the Chins, and every one of the Five Capitals was now lost to the 
Khitans. T'ien Tsu fled to the court of the king of Hsia, but the 
latter dared not harbour him. Acceding to the demand of the con- 
queror, he surrendered the unfortunate representative of the house 
of Liao to his fate in exchange for a tract of land adjoining his 
territory in the modern Shansi province. 




Warship of the Sung Dynasty 



188 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

The Western Liao, or Kara Khitans.— Thus fell the house 
oi Liao. Yeh-iu-ta-shih, one of its generals, however, managed to 
escape to the west. At Bashbalig he was received with enthusi- 
asm by the chiefs of the states in the Nan Lu. With what forces 
he could collect there he advanced upon Balasaghun, drove out its 
king, styled himself Gur Khan, or Khan of the Camp, and made 
Huszeoludo capital of his khanate, which is known in Chinese 
history as the Western Liao. The khanate he thus founded existed 
until it was wiped out by Jenghis Khan, of whom we wili learn more 
in the next chapter. 

Hostilities Break out Between the Chinese and the 
Chins. — The destruction of the Khitans was now complete, but 
there was no peace to the Sung empire. The Emperor had been of 
but little use to the Chins, who had desired his friendship solely on 
account of the wealth that had been so readily promised. They now 
began to see that all this wealth might be theirs without regard to 
the wishes of the Chinese. As if to hasten the coming of the storm 
which had been fast gathering, the Chinese gave asylum to some of 
the Chin deserters. Nothing pleased these Tartars better than an 
excuse to declare war upon their ally, and this China had herself 
furnished. Two armies under the veteran generals, Kaniipu and 
Niehmusa, were soon on their march towards the Chinese capital, 
Pien, the former passing through the modern province of Chihli and 
the latter through Shansi. 

To the surprise of Kaniipu himself, no material resistance was 
met with on the way. Hui Tsung, instead of facing manfully the 
dangers he had brought upon the nation, evaded them by abdicating 
in favor of his son, Ch'in Tsung (jft£§?), and fleeing to Chinkiang. 
The capital was besieged. The spirit of the Chinese was low, and, 
with the exception of Li Kang, the young emperor and his court 
were ready to accept peace at any price. Negotiations were opened 
and all the terms, dictated by Kaniipu, accepted. The terms exacted 
by the invaders were five million ounces of gold, fifty million ounces 
of silver, ten thousand oxen, an equal number of horses, and one 
million pieces of silk. It was further stipulated that the Sung 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 189 

empire should cede to the Chins the three Prefectures of Chung Shan 
(4»0j), T'ai Yuan (jUg), and Ho Chien (faffi) (all in modern Chihli 
province), that the Chin emperor was henceforth to be addressed as 
" Uncle" in all documents addressed to him from China, and that a 
prince of the Mood and a prime minister should be held by the Chins 
as hostages. Prince K'ang and Chang Pan-ch'ang were accordingly 
sent to the camp of Ivanlipu. They were, however, returned with 
the statement that they would accept no one as a hostage except Li 
Kang, but after much parleying prince Su, another brother of Ch'in 
Tsung, was sent in his stead. For some reason, Kanlipu did not 
wait for the full amount promised but returned with only 2,000,000 
ounces of gold and five million ounces of silver. It is stated that 
his provisions were getting low. 

As soon as the enemy was out of sight, the Chinese began to 
regret the bargain they had made. Secret instructions were given 
to the authorities of the territory to be ceded to hold out against the 
Chins, and agents were dispatched to persuade the Khitans to revolt. 
For this duplicity and lack of faith, Pien was besieged a second time 
in the winter of the same year (1126). This time it was invested 
by the united armies under the two Chin generals. Resistance in the 
face of such an overwhelming force was out of the question. The 
siege lasted forty days, at the end of which Ch'in Tsung repaired to 
the camp of the Chins and formally gave in his submission. No 
ransom for the city being paid, it was given up to pillage. In the 
following year (1127) the invaders returned to their home, not 
only with large booty but also with a long procession of prisoner s, 
including Hui Tsung, who had returned to Pien after the first 
departure of the Chins, Ch'in Tsung, their wives, and ladies of the 
harem, many of whom never returned. 

Founding of the Southern Sung Dynasty.— Prince K'ang, 
whom the Chins had refused to accept as a hostage, was in the city of 
Hsiang Chow (IBM) at the time of the fall of Pien. Hearing of the 
capture of his father and brother, he declared himself Emperor in the 
modern city of Nanking, and invited Li Kang to become his prime 
minister. The first question the newiy made emperor was called upon 



190 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

to decide was whether or not he should return to Pien, the city, which, 
within a year had twice experienced the horror of a foreign invasion. 
With an empty treasury and an inefficient army, he had certainly 
reasons for desiring to live as far away from the enemy as possible. 
He favored the transfer of the capital to Yangchow on the bank of 
the Yangtze. This scheme was strongly opposed by Li Kang, who 
regarded the move in the light of a public confession of weakness. 
Thus unable to agree wfth his new master on this vital point, the 
prime minister soon fell a victim of court intrigues. Kao Tsung. 
the emperor, and his court then set out for the new capital at 
Yangchow. 

General Tsung Tse. — At the same time general Tsung Tse 
was sent in the direction of the old capital to occupy all territory 
abandoned by the Chins. He made a historic stand against the 
returning enemy, and his loyalty and gallantry soon won for him 
friends even among the bandits who joined his standard. Twenty 
times he wrote to Kao Tsung to return to the old capital, assuring him 
that there was no danger, but it was all to no avail. Disappointed 
and filled with indignation, lie was shortly afterwards taken with 
a fatal illness. His last words were, "Let us cross the River," 
which he repeated three times before he expired. 

When his death became known to the Chins, three armies were 
poured into the south by as many different routes. City after city fell. 
The Huai Valley was reached and occupied. Consternation reigned 
in Yangchow. In less than two years, Kao Tsung transferred his 
capital first to Chinkiang, then to Lin-an, then to Ningpo, and 
finally, crossing an arm of the sea, to an island on the coast of 
Tai-Chow. 

The Battle of Huang Tien Tang.— However fierce the 
Tartars were on land, they were poor sailors. Having burned Lili- 
an and laden themselves with loot, they forced their way through 
Ping Kiang and Chang Chow, and were ready to return home. At 
Chin Shan, an islet in the Yangtze near Chinkiang, they found the 
river was sruarded by a fleet under General Han Shih-tsnng. A 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



19-1 



bloody battle, in which the Tartars fared badly, was fought at Huang 

T'ien Tang (S^^c^). For forty-eight days the passage was 

contested, and at the end of the 

time, the Chins still found them- 

selves on the south side of the 

broad river. At length they gave 

up the light and retreated to a 

point near Nanking", where they 

effected the crossing without 

opposition. 

While in Shansi, the Chins 
gradually drove the Chinese 
general, Chang Chung, into Sze- 
chuan, their advance in the 
direction of Hupei was checked by 
General Yo Fei (£? M) and his 
Lieutenant, Xiu Kao (^^). The 
Chinese were evidently destined to 
hold out in the southeastern 
corner for some time to come, 
and this, the Chin commander, 
\Yu Shu (7Ct1l), was obliged to 
recognize. Yo FEI 

The Kingdom of Chi. — Either through lack of experience or 
through dissensions among their commanders, the Chins did not 
attempt to govern Honan which they had overrun. They appointed 
Liu Yu (£i]|fc), a Chinese general who had deserted to them, to 
rule over it in his own name as "Emperor of Ch'i." He kept the 
insurgents in the Yangtze Valley supplied with provisions and 
weapons and in this way was able to prevent Yo Fei from attacking 
his ** Empire." But Yo Fei rooted out every rebellion in Hupei, 
and at length he was in a position to give the kingdom of Ch'i more 
attention. By this time, the Tartars, too, had been recalled on 
account of the illness of the Chin emperor. Liu Yu, deprived of 
their support, found it impossible for him to cope with Yo Fei. He 




192 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



was on the point of deserting his new friends, when Wu Shu 
appeared before Pien, the place where Liu Yii lived, and sent him 
a prisoner into Tartar v. The year 1137 saw the last of the 
kingdom of Ch'i. 

Peace Negotiations. — Satisfied that no immediate advantage 
could be gained by continuing the war, the dignitaries at the court 
of the Tartars were now more inclined to peace. They accordingly 
allowed one of the Chinese prisoners to return home with an under- 




Yo Fei's Tomb, near West I y ake, Hangchow 



standing that he was to serve their interests in the coming 
negotiations, should he succeed in obtaining an appointment under 
the new government. This man was the notorious Ch'in Kuei (^ ft). 
As he came from the quarters where Kao Tsung's parents were 
imprisoned, he was ushered at once into the presence of the emperor, 
and by his eloquence he convinced him of the hopelessness of war. 
More than once had this weak emperor sued for peace and offered 
to hold the remnant of an empire as a fief of the enemy ; but his 
entreaties had been rejected and his envoys had been thrown into 
prison by the Chins. He therefore was only too pleased to know that 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 198 

the prospect Tor peace was now brighter. The knowledge that Ch'in 
Kuei had gained during his year of captivity, he thought, would 
certainly enable him to accomplish the desired end and he did not 
hesitate to appoint him prime minister. With a spy by the side of 
the emperor, Chinese policy towards the Chins underwent a noticeable 
change. Ail the generals at the front were ordered to desist from 
further active operations, and in this way many of them were pre- 
vented from following up their victories. At one time Yo Fei 
advanced as far north as Chu Hsien Chen (%: fill M) driving the 
Tartars before him; but received as many as twelve messages 
(+ zi -& 11$) from the emperor in one day ordering him to withdraw. 
These orders he obeyed, bur still ii was too late for him to 
save his own life. His success over the enemy and his popularity 
with the people were all stumbling stones in the path of peace 
negotiations. Either he must die or there would be no peace. A 
false charge was lodged against him, and both the gallant general 
and his son, Yo Yiin (HfH), who had distinguished himself under 
his father's standard, were thrown into prison and in that dark 
place where so many foul deeds have been perpetrated were made 
away with by the orders of Ch'in Kuei. 

The treaty as finally concluded in 1142 provided as follows: — 

1. The cession of the prefectures of T'ang (0) and Teng (f&) 
west of the Huai in Clung Hsi (m V%) and one half of the prefectures 
of Shang (M) and Ch'in (^) in Shensi, with the Huai river and Ta 
San Kuan (;fc tfc fgj) to be the respective dividing lines in the two 
provinces. 

2. The payment by China of an annual tribute of 250,000 
taels of silver and 250,000 pieces of silk. 

3. The Sung emperor to receive his royal titles from the 
Chins. 

4. The return by the Chins of the remains of Hui Tsung, who 
died in 1135, and the dowager empress Wei. Kao Tsung's mother. 
In this treaty no mention was made as to Ch'in Tsung who was 
still living. This was because Kao Tsung did not wish his 
brother to return, for in that case according to Chinese custom it 



1D4 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

vvouid be necessary for him to resign the throne in favor of his 
brother, a thing he was not willing to do. Ch'in Tsung died a 
prisoner in Tartary in 1156. 

Ch'in Kuei now received credit for having restored peace to the 
Frontier, and was accordingly loaded with honors, being given the 
first order of Chinese nobility. The verdict of later ages., however, 
is an entirely different one. No name is regarded by the Chinese 
with more disgust and abhorrence than his. 

Subsequent Treaties. — The treaty of 1141 secured peace to 
the contracting parties for a period of twenty years. During 
this time the history of the Chins was a continuous record of 
internal troubles. The second emperor after Akutta died at the 
hands of his cousin whose Chinese name was Liang. This monarch 
made Peking his capital instead of Shan Ching as had hitherto 
been the case. In 1161 he removed the capital further south 
to the city of Pien, where he began preparations for invading 
the Sung empire. At Kuachow he was assassinated in his camp, 
whereupon the invading army returned to the north. Thus were 
the Chinese enabled to recover some of their lost territory. On 
the election of a new khan in Liao Yang, however, he demanded 
that the cities recently taken by the Chinese should be returned. 
War broke out afresh, and the result was again unfavorable to the 
Chinese. The treaty of 1165 that ended the war confirmed the 
boundaries as defined in the earlier treaty, and reduced the amount of 
silver and silk to be paid annually by twenty per cent. The payment 
was no longer made under the name of "Annual Tribute," but was 
changed to "Annual Present." Nor was it necessary for the Sung 
emperor to receive his appointment from the Chin emperor; they were 
to correspond on terms of equality except that the former was to 
stand in the same relation to the latter that a nephew does to his 
uncle. While the formality of "decrees" and "memorials" was done 
away with, their place being taken by "state letters." the ceremony 
in connection with the reception of an ambassador from the Chin 
emperor remained unchanged. The "nephew" was to stand up 
when he inquired after the health of the " uncle," and to come down 
from his throne when he received his "state letter" from the 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 195 

" uncle's " ambassador. It is hardly necessary to say that these 
marks of honor were not accorded the representative of the 
•' nephew." 

The last treaty between the two nations was made in 1208. 
The Chins were still strong then and in vain had the Chinese General, 
Ban Kuei-cho, tried to get the better of them. This treaty 
increased the amount of the ''annual present" to 300,000 taeis of 
silver and 300,000 pieces of silk, in addition to a war indemnity of 
3.000,000 taels. In other respects it confirmed the earlier agreements. 

\\ hile the •'annual present" required by the succeeding treaties 
was a continuous drain upon the Sung empire, its demoralizing effect 
upon the Chins was great. By the time of the rise of the Mongols, 
the Chins were no longer the people they had been in the days of 
Akutta. Although a law had been passed by one of his successors 
forbidding the adoption of Chinese dress, manners and names, and 
ordering the study of the Chinese Classics in the Nu-chen language, 
yet the once warlike Tartars were rapidly becoming Chinese in 
thought and in iiabits. The "annual present" was paid up to the 
year 1214 : 'hut harassed by the Mongols in their rear, the Chins were 
no longer able to enforce their demand. In 1222, they sent envoys 
for the first time to the court of the Southern Sungs to sue for 
peace. Twelve years later Li Tsung (Ji^), falling into the same 
mistake that Hui Tsung had made, allied himself with the Mongols 
to bring an end to the Chins. The result was his own house did not 
survive it long. This part of the narrative will be found in 
connection with the rise of the Mongols. 

Confucianism under the Sungs — The Sung philosophers 
were separated about fifteen hundred years from Confucius, and 
during this long period many differences arose. In reverence for 
antiquity and the inculcation of the Five Constant Virtues (i ^), in 
teaching the principles of perpetual and universal morality, and in 
drawing their countrymen to the ancient models of wisdom and 
virtue, they agreed with Confucius. In their cosmogony, their 
philosophy of nature, their attitude in regard to the ancient practice 
of divination, thev, however, differed widely from the Great Sage. 



196 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Confucianism had before their time been contaminated by the 
thoughts and works of the Han Ju ($| f§), the editors of the classics 
of the Han Dynasties, and those who expounded their views. They 
maintained the teaching of Confucius but the tone of their speculation 
was Taoist. Now under the Sungs, we find it contaminated by 
Buddhist elements. The philosophers of this period were all thorough 
Buddhists. They knew that Buddhism in China had reached the 
lowest stage of decay, and that Confucianism, pure and simple, was 
not acceptable to the minds of the contemporary Chinese. Hence 
they reconstructed Confucianism. They added the map of the 
Great Change (ic f$ M) ', and, advancing Buddhist theories to complete 
the thoughts of the ancients, they touched upon subjects on which 
even Confucius would not venture an opinion. Their theory of Tao 
Tung(ji#fc), or Confucian papacy, is equally baseless. According 
to them, Confucius was the first Sage who was not at the same time 
an occupant of the Chinese throne, and after Mencius, the line of 
succession was broken for centuries. Their idea, of course, was that 
the place of honor in the Confucian world rightly belonged to them. 
Oftentimes they compared their dynasty to the Chow, famous for ics 
philosophers. To say the least, this religious element is foreign to 
Confucianism. 

In their commentaries on the classics, they again were largely 
influenced by the products of the Indo-European mind. They say, 
" T'ien (Heaven or the Supreme Being) is nothing but li " (^iP^-tfe) 
( reason j, thus virtually denying the existence of God. Space will 
not permit of a fuller discussion of their faults which are many. 
Suffice it to say that their philosophy leads man away from God, 
that it retards the progress of mankind, that it encourages the 
telling of lies, and that it is very largely responsible for the weakness 
in Chinese character of the present day. No other philosophy is 
better suited to the ends of a despotic government, and this explains 
why the succeeding ages have paid to it the reverence which is in 
nowise its due. 



PART III 
MODERN HISTORY 



Section I. — From thk Rise of the Mongols to the Manchu 
Conquest of China 



CHAPTER XXV 
THE RISE OF THE MONGOLS 

The Mongols Before Jenghis Khan. — Little is known of 
the early history of the Mongols. Even the name "Mongol" is a 
disputed point; but if we may believe the Chinese historians, it 
means "brave." The first notice we have of this hrave people is in 
the history of the T'ang Dynast}'. At that remote period, they were 
spoken of as a branch of the Hsi Wei, a term vaguely applied by 
ancient writers to the descendants of the Hsiung-nu. Their first 
camping ground, they inform us. was at the foot of the Burkhan 
Mountains between the Onon and Kernlan rivers, where they lived 
tinder the yoke, first of the Khitans, and later of the Chin Tartars. 
Under the leadership of Kabul, grandfather of the famous Jenghis 
Khan, the Mongols espoused the cause of Talan, a prince of the 
house of Chin, and succeeded in throwing off their yoke. For years 
he kept at hay a superior force led by Uchn, the Chin general, who 
had seen so many wars in China, and in the end the Chins were 
obliged to recognize him as "King of Mengfu Kuo " (^lilil5E). 
Instead of Mengfu, Kabul later adopted the name of Mengku (M'fc). 
and thu> was "the Great Mongol Nation" (ic % -£ |ij) born into the 
world. Yessugai, his grandson, further extended the domain. On 
his return from a campaign against one of the neigboring tribes, 
Yessugai found his wife, Ogelon, had given birth to a son. This 
baby, the future conqueror Jenghis Khan, he named Temujine, after 
his rival whom he had just slain in battle. 

Jenghis Khan. — As is often the case with great men, life was 
hard with Jenghis Khan. At the age of thirteen, he had the 



198 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



mis fortune to mourn the death of his father, who, it is said, lost his 
life in battle with the Tatars, an eastern tribe of the Mongols. The 
death of the old chieftain was the signal for desertion among the 
tribes whom Yessugai had brought together with an iron hand. 
" The deepest wells are sometimes dry, and the hardest stone is some- 
times broken," said the deserters to Temujine, "and why should we 

cling to thee.'' The 
mourning had hardly 
finished before fully 
one-half of Yessugai's 
friends and comrades 
cast off their allegiance. 
Indeed, the very foun- 
dation upon which a 
world-empire was to 
be built would have 
fallen to pieces 
had it not been for 
the widow, Temujine's 
mother. Seizing the 
national standard, she 
led those who still re- 
mained faithful, gave 
§£!N chase to the deserters, 
and succeeded in bring- 
ing one-half of them 
back to their allegiance. 
Many times thereafter 
the boy was made to 
drink the cup of defeat 
at the hands of enemies 
of whom there were 
not a few; but, as he 
grew up, he gradually 




JENGHIS Khan 



proved his worth, and won the respect of both friends and foes. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 199 

As a mercenary of the Chins, Jenghis Khan received the title of 
•' Commander of Rebels" (Tarri Kuri), and at the age of twenty- 
seven he was made Khakhan of the Arlids. From 1187 to 
1193 he slowly gained strength until he established his authority 
over ail the tribes situated between the Kerulan and the Selenga, as 
far as the desert towards the south and as far as the Ingoda towards 
the Shores. Of his old enemies there remained then the Merkits on 
the shores of Lake Baikal. With the aid of Toghural. the Chief of 
the Keraits with whom his father had sworn friendship, he won an 
easy victory over them. But his success made the Keraits envious 
of him; and ere long the allies became belligerents. When it came 
to battle (1203 ), Toghural was among the slain and his son, Sengun, 
fled into Tibet, where he subsequently died after many years of 
wandering. This victory was followed in the next year by another 
one over the Naimais, the most powerful of the nomadic tribes in 
the western part of Mongolia at that time. Having thus subjected 
the whole of Mongolia to his authority, in 1206 he called an assembly 
(Kuriltai) of the Mongol khans on the bank of the Onon; and, with 
their consent, assumed the title of Jenghis Khan, that is the Greatest 
Khan. 

His Conquests in China. — The state of Hsia was then 
weakened by civil disorders, and was an inviting field for the energies 
of the Mongols. In the year of his coronation, Temujine, now fifty- 
two years of age, for the first time ventured on a foreign campaign. 
Having captured several strongholds in Ho Hsi and having accepted 
the daughter of its king as ransom, he retired in the summer of 1208 
to Lung-ting to escape the heat of the plains. Here news reached 
him that Kushluh, Chief of the Naimans, and Tukhtul, chief of the 
Merkits, were preparing for war on the Irtish. He at once marched 
against them and, in a pitched battle in the neighborhood of the 
Irtish, overthrew them both, Tukhtul being killed on the field and 
Kushluh turned into a fugitive seeking refuge in the court of the 
Kara Khitans. 

Satisfied with this victor}-, he again directed his forces against 
Hsia. Good fortune attended him wherever he went. From Hsia 



200 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

he invaded the Chin empire. Once within the Great Wall, he divided 
his army into three divisions; the right wing under his sons was to 
move due south; the left wing under his brothers, in the direction of 
the sea ; while the central or main body under his personal command, 
in a south-easterly direction. The three divisions all met with 
success everywhere. The Western Capital of the Chins was stormed 
and carried, and this was followed by the fall of many cities north 
and east of the Yellow River, Jenghis Khan advancing as far as 
Wei Hai Wei in the modern province of Shantung. Hsiian Tsung, 
the Chin emperor, paralyzed with fear, eagerly sued tor peace. He 
presented Jenghis Khan with a daughter of the late emperor. 500 
youths and maidens, 3,000 horses, and agreed to pay tribute. 
As soon as the Mongols were out of China, he removed his court 
from Yen King to Pien. For this he was accused of bad faith by 
Jenghis Khan. Once more the Mongols were pushed with unceasing 
vigor into the doomed empire, and Yen King and the country around 
it were forever lost to the Chins. The invaders did not cease to 
advance until their scouts were within twenty It of the new capital. 

His Conquests in Western Asia. --While Jenghis was taking 
city after city and province after province in China, Kushluh, 
the fugitive Naiman Khan was not idle. With characteristic 
treacher}-, he sought permission of the king of the Hsi Liao (Kara 
Khitans) to collect the fragments of his Naiman army. Having 
succeeded in raising a force sufficiently large for his purpose, he 
leagued himself with the Shah of Khwarezm against the friend 
who had received him with open arms in his hour of need. After a 
decisive battle, the allies remained masters of the situation, and the 
confiding king of the Khitans was forced to abdicate in favor of a 
man who, until recently, was a fugitive and guest of his nation. 
Now the ruler of a vast territory, Kushluh thought his time had 
come to measure strength with the Mongol chief. Taking advantage 
of Jenghis' absence in China, he began to make inroads into the 
domain of the Uigurs who were then a dependent tribe of tiie 
Mongols. This was the event that finally led to the conquering of 
Central Asia and a part of Europe. Appointing Mukhuli military 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



20 1 



governor in China, Jenghis led his hosts towards the west. Kushluh, 
it must be remarked, was a Christian and no friend to the Kara 
Khitans, who were for the most part Moslems. On the approach 
of the Mongols, he was virtually deserted ami imprisoned. His 
newly acquired territory was then added to the growing empire of 
the Mongols. 

Jenghis now owned land to the frontier of the Khwarezm 
empire : but for the time being he had no desire to advance any 
further. He therefore sought to make such a treaty with 
Muhammed. the Shah, as would secure the 
commercial route to Europe to his people. 
His request was readily granted by Muham- 
med, for the Shah was eager to gain time 
in order to make war upon Bagdad, the 
headquarters of the Caliph. He had lately 
come into possession of certain letters which 
convinced him that the Caliph had been in 
league with his enemies. After the signing of 
the treaty with Jenghis, he led an expedition 
over the snows to Bagdad ; but it was far from 
being successful. Moreover the declaration 
of war upon the head of the Moslem world, 
meant the alienation of his Moslem subjects, 
who were forbidden by the Caliph to offer 
prayers for their king. Of all this, Jenghis 
was minutely informed ; he only waited for 
an excuse to terminate his friendly relations 
with Muhammed. He did not have to wait 
long. A party of Mongol merchants, avail- 
ing themselves of the right of way secured 
to them by the recent treaty, arrived at the 
city of Otrar. Ignoring their treaty rights 
the governor had every one of them put to the sword and their 
goods confiscated. When Jenghis demanded reparation, his envoy, 
too, was barbarously put to death by Muhammed. War was now 
inevitable. 




Military tally of Mongol* 



202 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



In the spring of 1218, Jenghis, accompanied by his four sons, 
Djiuchi. Jargatai, Ogdai and Tule, and Generals Chepe and 
Snbtai, set out from Kara Koram on the greatest campaign ever 
made in his life. Through Almalid and across the Jaxartes, the 
Mongols marched, and to resist the tide of invasion was well-nigh 
impossible. Of the 400,000 men that Muhammed sent to meet 
the invaders. 160,000, it is said, w T ere left dead on the field. The 
path of the Mongols was marked with fearful atrocities. Otrar, 
the offending city, was stormed, given up to pillage and massacre, 




Warships of Mongols 

and razed to the ground. Many others suffered a similar fate, 
and even Bokhara and Samarkand did not escape. While Muham- 
med was shut up in the latter city, his son, Jalaleddin, made a 
heroic stand near Ghanzni, where he dispersed a Mongol detach- 
ment under Kukuklu. But on the arrival of reinforcements the 
Mongol defeat was turned into a final victory. From the Indus 
one flying column was sent under Bela to pursue Jalaleddin, who 
fled to Dehli; another flying column under Subtai and Chepe was 
sent from Samarkand to follow Muhammed. Bela went as far 
as Multan in India, but returned without the fugitive. Subtai and 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 203 

Ghepe, finding that the object of their pursuit had been buried on 
an island in the Caspian, advanced into Georgia in 1222, and 
drove the Kipchacks out of their home. The Russian princes, 
for taking into their protection the Kipchacks, were taught a lesson 
on the Kaleza. Here the two generals received word that Jenghis 
had started on Ins return journey to Mongolia, and after ravaging 
Greater Bulgar they also retired into their native land. In less 
than twenty years the Mongol horses had borne their masters 
from the China Sea to the banks of the Dneiper. 

His Death. — On his return from the West, Jenghis found 
Hsia further weakened by its wars with the Chins. In 1225-6 the 
region of Ho Hsi was fearfully devastated ; or, according to the 
Chinese historians, was strewn with corpses. The state that had 
successfully maintained its existence against the Liao, the Chins 
and the Sungs for nearly two centuries came to an end in 1227, 
when its last king was sent a prisoner into Mongolia. Amid 
preparations for invading China, Jenghis was taken sick on a 
tour of inspection and died in the fall of the same year near the 
Liu-P'an Mountain (^ ^ Ui) in the present Kansu province. 
From this place his remains were conveyed into Mongolia and 
were laid at rest in the valley of Ke Keeng. 

Division of Jenghis' Empire. — The vast empire he had 
conquered was now divided among his sons as follows : — 

To the family of his deceased eldest son, was given the 
country from Kanyalik and Kharezm to the borders of Bulgar and 
Saksim : 

To Jargatai' his eldest surviving son, the territory from the 
border of the Uigurs' country to Bokhara; 

To Ogdai his second surviving son, the country of the Nai- 
mans; and to Tule, the youngest, the home country. 

Conquests by Ogdai.— Ogdai, according to the will of 
Jenghis, was also to succeed him as Khakhan. He not only 
inherited his father's throne, but also his wars. His first care was 
to extend the empire in the direction of the Chin territory. In 



20 J 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



area the latter was but one-third of what it had been; it extended 
to ChingTing in the north, the Yangtze in the south, the Yellow 
River in the east and the Tung Kuan Pass in the west. At Tung 
Kuan was stationed the flower of the Chin army, but the plan of 
the Mongols was to reach Pien without storming this Pass. 
To carry out this scheme successfully necessitated the passing 
of an army through Chinese territory. In order to arrange for 
this passage, Ogdai sent his envoy to the emperor; but the 




Mongols invading Japan 



latter refused to treat with him and beheaded the man he sent. 
This at once brought an army under Tule through vShensi to the 
border of the Chinese empire, while Ogdai marched through Ho- 
nan. Tule having penetrated the Chinese territory the two 
armies effected a junction east of the Pass and laid siege to Pien. 
From the capital of the Chins, Ai Tsung {%%) fled to Chai-chow, 
whither the Mongols quickly followed. After sustaining a siege 
for some weeks and enduring all the horrors of starvation, the 
garrison surrendered, and the unfortunate emperor committed 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



20 y 



suicide by hanging himself. Thus fell in 1234 the Chin dynasty 
which had ruled over the northern portion of China for a little over 

a century. 

The annexation of North China by no means satisfied the 
ambition of Ogdai.' In 1236 he despatched three armies in as 
many directions, one against Corea, one against the Snugs, and the 
third into Eastern Europe. This last force was commanded by 
Batu, the eldest son of Djiuchi, Ogdai's deceased brother, with 




V. c 



Mongols invading Japan 



Subtai as his chief adviser. Kuyuck, Ogdai's own son, Mengku 
son of Tale, Bardar, son of Jargatai, and other princes all 
accompanied the expedition. With irresistible vigor and 
astonishing rapidity, the Mongols forced their way into Russia. 
Ria.au, Moscow, Kieff, and other cities were utterly destroyed. 
Having desolated a part of Russia they moved on in two directions ; 
one section under Batu going into Hungary, and the other undei 
Bardar and Haidu, into Poland. In vain did the peoples of those 
countries try to prevent their inroads and keep the Mongols from 



206 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

carrying lire and sword into the heart of Europe. While laying 
waste the country in Silesia, the news arrived that Ogdai had 
drunk himself to death in his palace in Kara Karom. Most of the 
princes, feeling that their interests were at stake, naturally 
desired to be present at the Kuriltai. Evacuation at once began 
and Europe was thus saved from further depredations of the 
Mongols. 

Ogdai was succeeded by Kuvuck, who reigned onlv three 
years; but during this short time we hear of an advance against 
the Sultan of Rum, a fresh campaign against Corea, and another 
attack on the Sung empire. 

With the death of Kuvuck, the lordship of the Mongols was 
lost to the line of Ogdai for ever. Mengku, who was elected on 
July 1, 1251. put to death his cousin's widow and the several 
princes of his house. In this way was sown the seed of hatred 
which in the course of time caused the break-up of the powerful 
empire that Jenghis had established. 

The Founding of the Ilkhans. — On Mengku's accession, 
complaint reached Kara Karom that dissensions had broken out 
in Persia. Huluga, his younger brother who was sent to restore 
order having marched through Samarkand and Kesh, crossed the 
Oxus and advanced by way of Balkh into the province of 
Khohistan. Its inhabitants were indiscriminately slaughtered, 
the number killed, so it is stated, reaching the enormous total 
of 800,000. From Khohistan, he marched over the snowy 
mountains to Bagdad, where the Caliph gave in his submission; 
but it did not save him from death, or his city from pillage. 
Aleppo was stormed and sacked, and Damascus surrendered. 
Huluga was meditating on the capture of Jerusalem when he 
heard of the death of Mengku, and as in duty bound he returned. 
As his reward, he was given the land of his conquest and 
established there the empire of the Ilkhans. 

The Mongol Army. — Having traced the conquests of the 
Mongols, one naturally desires to know something of their 



'OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 207 

invincible army. Unfortunately we have practically no informa- 
tion on this subject, beyond a meagre sketch, before the time of 
Kublai Khan. It seems that before Kublai-'s time there were two 
army corps ; one made up of Mongols, and the other of all 
Non-Mongols. Every Mongol between the ages of 15 and 70 was 
a soldier, princes of the blood not being excepted. Each soldier 
was supplied with at least four horses, which not only carried him 
to battle, but, at times, also gave him food. It was not an 
uncommon thing" for a Mongol to suck the blood of one of his 
horses when food was not otherwise obtainable. This fact 
accounts for the rapidity with which the Mongols moved from one 
place to another. Xo city was strong enough to stand before their 
ballistae, or war-engines, which were capable of throwing stones 
of great weight. These, it is said, were the inventions of Persians. 
While the Mongols were always bent on plunder and massacre, 
they would not put artisans to death. Samarkand alone, on the 
occasion of its fail before the soldiers of Jenghis Khan, furnished 
them with thirty thousand men of arts and crafts, who were 
forced into the service of their captors. Each expedition was 
accompanied by a sort of engineering corps (E¥). Birth alone 
was not sufficient to make a man a khakhan ; he had to prove his 
worth as a leader in battle. As a rule, their khakhan was the 
most popular man and the best general. 

The Effect of the Mongol Conquest of Western Asia. — 

The continued revages of the Mongols in Western Asia were solely 
responsible for the decay of Mohammedanism in that quarter, 
forcing as they did the incoming tide to flow in the direction of 
Europe. Under Jenghis Khan and his immediate successors, 
Catholicism made considerable progress in Mongolia and North 
China. Huluga, the founder of the empire of the Ilkhans, was 
himself a Christian, and by him the caliphate of Bagdad was 
brought to an end. He was most liberal in his gifts to the 
Christian church. Europe was then busy with its crusades. 
Both Innocent IV of Rome and Louis IX of France sought 
alliances with the Mongol chief. Plani Carpini, the legate of 



208 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

the Pope, left Lyons in 1245, and reached Sari on the Volga in 
the following year. Here he was received by Batn and forwarded 
to Kara k'arom, where he witnessed the coronation of Knyuck. 
To William Rnbrnqnis, the representative of the King of France, 
we are indebted for a description af Mengku's palace which he 
says was "surrounded by brick walls. — Its southern side had 
three doors. Its central hall was like a church and consisted of a 
nave and two aisles, separated by columns. Here the court sat on 
great occasions. In front of the throne was placed a silver tree 
having at its base four lions, from whose mouths there spouted 
into four silver basins, wine, kumiss, hydromel and terasine. At 
the top of the tree a silver angel sounded a trumpet when the 
reserviors that supplied the four fountains wanted replenishing." 
The Mongolian Language.— The Mongolian characters are 
written perpendicularly from top to bottom and the lines follow 
from left to right. They were derived from the original Ouigurian 
forms which were themselves derived from the Syriac that was 
brought to the Ouigurs by Nestorian missionaries. Indian and 
Tibetan influences may also be noted, while the arrangement of 
characters in perpendicular lines is common to the Chinese. The 
writing was brought into the present shape by learned Lamas in 
the thirteenth century. Phags-pa, a Tibetan L,ama, is credited 
with the introduction of a special alphabet called Galik. The 
new alphabet was employed to express the frequently occurring 
letters borrowed from Sanskrit and Tibetan because they were 
wanting in the Mongolian alphabet. One of the many difficulties 
encountered by students of this language comes from the fact that 
the same sign is pronounced differently according to its position in 
the words. In a slightly altered form their script was later 
adopted by the Manchus. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 209 

CHAPTER XX VI 
KUBLAI KHAN 

Who Kublai Was. — Kublai (IB $ W was the second son of 
Tnle (If). He was probably the greatest of Jenghis' (J& «" ) 
descendants with whom Chinese history has had to deal. From a 
liententant ill the army of the Mengkn (W. IF) khan, his elder 
brother, he rose to be the Grand Khan, and emperor of united 
China. The last was an honor that had been denied not only to 
the Khitans and the Chin Tartars, but also to Kublai \s prede- 
cessors. Since the days of Jenghis, the wave of Mongol expansion 
had extended in many directions and over many lands; but it 
remained for Kublai to subjugate the whole of that part of China 
south of the Yangtze, an empire under the representative of the 
house of Sung at Iyin An (6£ 3c), now the city of Hangchow (#t Ml) , 
in Chekiang ($f ft) province. This, the last appanage, however, 
was only added to the vast Mongol empire by allowing its 
western half to become more independent. The reign of Kublai, 
therefore, was the most important period in Mongol history in 
that, while the Mongols under him ruled the largest empire known 
in history, it was he who sowed the seeds of dissension which in 
course of time led to its final break-up. 

Alliance between the Mongols and the Chinese. — The 

cause of the war between the Mongols and the Chinese arose out 
of the alliance that they had entered into against the Chins. 
This event necessarily takes us back to a time prior to the days of 
Kublai. The alliance in question had been of material advantage 
to the [Mongols in two respects. In the first place, it had given 
them the right to march armies through Chinese territory to 
attack the weakest points in the line of defence held by the Chins ; 
and in the second place, it had deprived their enemy of any 
possible aid that they might have received from the large region 
lying to the south of the Yangtze. 



210 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

As regards the Chinese, the alliance had not terminated so 
happily. Though the Chinese had so far enjoyed comparative 
immunity from the Mongols, yet it was a fact due solely to the 
existence of a third state between them. The annexation by the 
Mongols of this third state, the outcome of their alliance with the 
Sung empire, now deprived the Chinese of what benefit they had 
derived therefrom, and brought the boundaries of the Mongol 
empire to the Chinese frontier. At this juncture, hi Tsung, the 
Sung emperor, had the audacity to insist on sharing the spoils of 
war with his ally by occupying the city of Pien (-ft) and its sur- 
rounding country. Such action, of course, made war inevitable. 
Thus we see in the year 1235 the beginning of a war which was 
destined to make the Mongol the sole master of China. 

Conquest of Kublai. — Owing to other wars, the Mongols 
could not give the problem in South China such attention as they 
wished until Kublai was made Viceroy of Mo-nan (*1 ^) (South 
of the Desert) . No better man could have been appointed to this 
important office. A friend of Chinese civilization, Kublai was the 
man to conquer China and in turn be conquered by her. The 
approach to the Sung empire was then guarded by strong 
fortresses at Hsiang Yang (m fi§) and its sister city, Fan Ch'eng 
(3£$c), both on the Han (g|) River. Kublai's plan was to evade 
both of these cities. Instead of directing his force against 
China herself, he led his army in 1253 into the modern province 
of Yunnan (g ^), then the territory of a separate kingdom, called 
Ta Li (^c *t). In this campaign he was entirely successful ; and 
from Yunnan he advanced into the eastern part of Tibet (ttil). 
Here he met Mati Dhivaja (^ i& *§Jtt) , a lama of considerable in- 
fluence, and concluded a peace with him; while his lieutenant, 
Vriangatai (% % nfr in), penetrated as far south as Tonquin (^S fit), 
whose king was made to acknowledge the supremacy of the Mon- 
gols. Having accomplished his purpose, Kublai, leaving the cam- 
paign in the south in the hands of his trusted general, returned north 
to complete preparations for the invasion of South China. By 
1257 everything was ready. At the head of an army consisting of 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 211 

40,000. men, Mengku Khan set out himself from Kara Karom 
(K£!$']*U$0 and advanced by way of Szechuan, while Kublai 
directed the detachment that marched through Honan, and 
Yriangatai lead his command into Hunan by way of Ta Li. 
Death, however, overtook Mengku before Hochow (^ Ml), now 
Chungking (MM), Szechuan (m )\\) . It was this event that gave 
the Sung empire a further lease of life. 

Peace of Wuchang. — The news of the death of Mengku 
was not received by Kublai until he had laid siege to the city of 
Wuchang (Hk H), whose garrison had been reduced by 13,000 in 
killed and wounded. As his presence was now required else- 
where, Kublai granted the request of Chia Ssu-tao (H#Ht), the 
Chinese generalissimo, who had been sent with a large force to the 
relief of the city, to open negotiations for peace. The terms as 
they were finally agreed upon in 1259, provided for the cession by 
China of all territory north of the Yangtze, the acknowledgment 
of the Mongol khan as overlord, and the payment of an annual 
tribute of 200,000 taels of silver and 200,000 pieces of silk. This 
treaty concluded, the Mongols withdrew. But it' was a treaty 
concluded by Chia Ssu-tao, on his own authority. He never 
reported its contents to his sovereign ; but on the contrary he 
tried to give himself the credit of "having driven out the 
Mongols.' ' It was solely because Kublai was engaged at home 
that hostilities were not resumed immediately upon the discovery 
that the Sung emperor had repudiated the treaty. 

Accession of Kublai. — Upon the conclusion of peace, 
Kublai withdrew his forces into Mongolia and ordered Vriangatai 
to evacuate Hunan and join him. The fact was that he wanted 
to take the throne made vacant by the death of his brother, but 
he was not the only claimant. Arihbuga (^I^f), the youngest 
of his brothers, having been appointed regent before the departure 
of Mengku from Kara Karom, had the advantage over him in 
that he was on the spot and had been exercising the functions of 
the high office. Moreover Arihbuga had taken steps to convene 



212 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



a kitriltai. Kublai knew that further delay would be fatal to his 
own cause, as there was no doubt that the kuriltai convened by 
his brother would declare in favor of the latter. Accordingly as 
soon as he reached Kaiping (\% 2 p-) in Mongolia, he declared him- 
self Grand Khan and marched to Kara Karom with a view to 
forcing his brother to vacate the throne. In 1261, the two 
brothers met in battle, and such was the defeat received by 
Arihbuga that he gave up all his claims to the throne; and, three 
years later, along with the sons of Mengku, formally acknowledged 
the authority of Kublai. This, nevertheless, did not alter the 
fact that Kublai had assumed the succession in a manner incon- 
sistent with the established custom of his predecessors, a fact 
which had the unhappy effect of weakening his position with 
many of the Mongol princes. 

Removal of Capital to Peking. — Kublai never forgot the 
unfinished work in South China. Kara Karom answered well 
the requirements of a- capital, so long as the Western Empire was 
concerned. Since it was in the south and not in the west, that 
he now desired to extend his power, he needed a city within the 

Great Wall. For this purpose, 
he selected Peking, or Cambulic 
as the place was then called, 
meaning the city of the Grand 
Khan. The improvements of 
the city were not completed until 
1271. When he transferred the 
seat of government to this new 
city, he adopted the Chinese 
name Yuan (yt) for his dynasty. 
At about the same time he also 
made Kaiping the secondary 
capital, or Shang Tu LfcSP), 
Peking being his Great Capital, or Ta Tu (*&). During the 
remainder of his life he divided his time between Peking and 
Kaiping, spending three months in one and the next three in the 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



218 



other, and this custom was kept up by his successors to the last 
day of the dynasty. The transfer of the capital from Kara Karom 
to Peking tended to make Kublai more a Chinese emperor than a 
Mongol khan. It also took him farther away from the affairs of 
the West with the result that greater freedom through force of 
circumstances was allowed his clansmen whose domains were 
scattered through western Asia and eastern Europe. 

Downfall of the Sung Dynasty. — Having established 
himself on the Mongol throne, operations to subdue the Sung 
empire were resumed by Kublai with renew r ed vigor. By the use 
of war engines of Persian origin, which were capable of throwing 
stones of great weight, the walls of Hsiang Yang and Fan Ch'eug 
were breached, and both of the cities, after having sustained 
a siege of five years, surrendered (1273). From Hsiang Yang. 




Ammunition Wagon for Artillery, Yuan L>ynas.y 

the invading army commanded by Bayan (ffiH), a general of no 
mean ability, marched down the river and captured many cities. 
After the fall of Wuchang, the Mongols met with but little 
resistance. At Nanking CiUm), then known under the name of 
Chien K'ang iWlk), they divided their forces into three divisions, 
and each took a different route to the city of I v in An, the capital 
of the Southern Sung Empire. 

Tu Tsung (mm), son of Li Tsung (€£), having died in 1274, 

the Sung Dynasty was represented by a young emperor, Kung Ti 

(t^sfr), witli the Empress Hsieh (=£f), his grandmother, acting as 



214 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



regent. At this time, the valley of the Huai (SHi) and the city 
of Yangchow (HjJ'H), as well as the provinces of Chekiang and 
Fnkien and the two Knangs still remained faithful to the cause 




Chii Kuaii Archway. Yuan Dynasty 

of the Sungs. The situation, therefore, was not so hopeless as it 
had been represented to the young monarch. But bad counsel 
prevailed and Kung Ti surrendered himself to Bayan on the 
approach of the Mongols; and, along with his mother and wife, 
was sent a prisoner to Cambulic. Thus ended the Sung Dynasty 
that had reigned in China for 316 years. It had taken Kublai 
no less than seventeen years to complete its overthrow. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



215 




Last Efforts of the Sungs. — Two of Kung Ti's brothers 
had escaped from Ling- An. Tnan Tsung U$ ^), the elder of the 
two, was proclaimed at Foochow as the successor of Knug Ti while 
the latter was being conveyed into exile. Despite the desperate 
efforts of many brilliant 
men, such as Wen Tien- 
hsiang (X 2c >#) and his 
colleagues, the Chinese were 
not able to stem the tide of 
invasion. On the contrary, 
the Mongols carried every- 
thing before them. Even 
Foochow, in the modern 
province of Fnkien, was no 
longer a place of safety, and 
from there the Snngs fled to 
Knangtnng closely pursued 
by the Mongols. After the 
death of Tnan Tsung, which 
took place on an island on the Kuangtung coast, the Chinese hope 
centered in his brother, Ti Ping (#-^r). Him, the Chinese placed 
on the throne, although what had remained of their empire was 
now but a small island called Ai Shan- (H Ui). In less than a 
year, this island was blockaded by a Mongol fleet. With all 
means of supply and communication cut off, Lu Hsiu-fu (1^ ^ ^), 
the commanding Chinese general, took his master upon his 
shoulders, and jumped into the sea, thus burying the Chinese 
cause with its last representative in a watery grave. 

Extent of Kublai's Empire. — We now find Kublai the 
ruler of the largest empire we have any record of in Chinese 
history. It stretched from the Yellow Sea in the Bast to the 
Black Sea in the West, and from Northern Mongolia in the North 
to Tonquin in the South. We also find him adopting Chinese 
customs, patronizing their literature, and supporting their institu- 
tions. Ere long there occurred in the West an event which threat- 
ened to deprive him of the greater half of this empire. 



Mirror with Sanskrit inscription. Yuan Dynasty 
(" Chinese Art") 



216 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Revolt of Kaidu Khan. — This was the revolt of a prince of 
the house of Ogedai (® ffl £). The election of Mangku, the first 
of Jenghis' successors who was not the chosen from the house of 
Ogedai, had been an event most distasteful to the descendants of the 
latter. In other words, the loss of the house of Ogedai had been 
the gain of the house of Title. Kublai not only belonged to the 
house of Title but had seized the throne without the consent of 
a kuriltai. During the struggle between him and his brother, 
Arihbttga, Kaidu (*&t&), Ogedai's grandson, took sides with the 
latter; but. upon his defeat, retired into Emil (-tit^M) to 
recuperate. As soon as Kublai went to Peking, Kaidu again 
became active. 

Before proceeding to relate the progress of this rebellion, it is 
necessary to say a word or two as to the condition of affairs that 
existed at this time in Western Asia and Eastern Europe. There 
were no less than four independent monarchies, or khanates, in 
this part of Jenghis' empire, ruled by descendants of his four sons. 
They were as follows : 

(1^ The Empire of the Ilkhans (^Sff BB), or the Ulns of 
Haluga (JB£1jJC), whose sway extended over Persia, Babylonia, 
Mesopotamia, and Armania ; 

(2) The country of Kipchack (Ife&flffiS), or the Ulus of 
Batu (38 i&), which had been established on the steppes of the 
Volga (SR2W) : 

(3) The Chagatai Khanate (& & & yf g|), which included the 
pastures of Hi (#■ %) and the Valley of the Jaxartes; 

(4) The Ogedai Khanate at the base of the Altai (|S»f % #) 
Mountains. 

Between the first and the second, a religious war had been 
brewing, for Barkar (JB'J^-U), Battt's younger brother and 
successor, had been the first of Jenghis' descendants to turn 
Mohammedan, and as such had been no friend to his uncle, 
Haluga, a Christian by faith, and the conqueror of a Mohammedan 
nation. When Kaidu unfurled his standard of revolt in 1265, 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



217 




Tkmur 

stength of the Ilkhans, 

thus giving Kaidu time 
to turn his attention to 
the East, and to embar- 
rass the rear of Kublai, 
who was now engaged in 
the subjugation of South 
China. 

The first army sent 
by Kublai against Kaidu 
was commanded by one 
of his sons ;and Sheriki 
(tip), his nephew. 
The latter Jturued traitor 
and Kublai\s sou, Na- 
mugan OPtJc^, and an- 
other general, named 
Autumn (%M), were 
among the prisoners 
taken by Kaidu. This 
necessitated the despatch 



the year in which Kaluga died, his 
cause was espoused by both Barak, 
the Chagatai khan, and Mangku 
Temur (ft # & * ft) , the Kipchack 
khan; but not by Abaka (HAnfr), 
Haluga's son, Khan of Persia. Four 
years later the first three khans 
called a kuriltai and elected Kaidu 
Grand Khan; and, because Abaka 
had refused to join them, they invad- 
ed his country. At first the allies 
fared badly; but, on the death of 
Abaka, there arose in Persia civil 
troubles which greatly reduced the 




TOMB^OF TBMUR 



218 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of a second army under Bayan, the best general Kublai had. 
Although Bayan routed the force of Kaidu on the banks of the 
Orkhon (f[S $ *$), he was not able to punish him severely. 

In 1283, the rebellion assumed a serious aspect. What is 
now Manchuria was then the domain of Nayan (Jb H), a descend- 
ant of Uchegin, Jenghis' younger brother. This khan, too, had 
been dissatisfied with the conduct of Kublai and at the instance 
of Kaidu was on the point of rebellion when Kublai, fresh from 
his conquest of South China, marched into his territory. 
Kublai 's plan was to deal Nayan a severe blow before he could 
have time to join Kaidu, and it was carried out most successfully. 
Having put Nayan to death, Kublai went to Kara Karom to give 
Kaidu battle; but the latter refused to meet, him and retired as 
soon as he approached. 

During the remainder of his life, Kublai never re-established 
his authority over the western half of his empire. The revolt of 
Kaidu was allowed to die a natural death in the 9th year after 
Kublai died, or/ 1303, when Chabar (^ A $L) , Kaidu's son, 
and Tua (fp &), Barak's son, gave up the struggle by submitting 
to Kublai's grandson who was then emperor in Peking. This 
rebellion served to interrupt the communication between the 
western and eastern halves of the Mongol Empire. Excepting 
occasional embassies sent by the Mongol princes in the West to 
verify the accounts of their lands in China, the West was practic- 
ally independent of the Mongols in Peking during the rest of the 
Yuan Dynasty. 

Foreign Expeditions of Kublai. — Almost all Kublai's 
foreign expeditions were disastrous. His predecessors had left him 
very little to accomplish in the line of new conquests except in 
places beyond the seas and those bordering upon the tropics. The 
Mongols were no sailors; nor were they born for a tropical 
climate ; and these things explain the defeats of which we are 
about to give a brief account. The principal foreign expeditions 
undertaken by Kublai were his wars with Japan and the ex- 
pedition against Champa. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 219 

Wars With Japan. — The cause of these wars was Kublai's 
mad desire to receive tribute from Japau. The king of Corea was 
his son-in-law, and through him Kublai demanded that the 
Islanders should acknowledge him as overlord. To his dismay he 
found them as stubborn as he himself was haughty, for they 
notified him of their unwillingness to comply by the murder of 
his envoys. In 1274 an expedition consisting of Corean and 
Chinese soldiers was defeated at Tsushima (M .8*), but this failure 
only served to stimulate Kublai to greater efforts some seven 
years later. At the latter date he was in possession of South 
China, and at the ports of Fukien, a province in South China, 
rich in timber, ship-building was pushed on with great energy, 
while recruiting agencies were established throughout the empire. 
In 1281 a fleet of 4,500 ships, manned by Mongols, Chinese, and 
Coreans, sailed proudly in the direction of Hakata (If £). The 
resistance offered by the Japanese was such that for two months 
every attempt at landing was frustrated. While cruising 
fruitlessly in the vicinity of Hichiku ( JE- Bif flg & ) , the fleet 
encountered a severe storm which sent the majority of the ships 
to the bottom of the sea, leaving a few of the survivors to go 
home and tell the sad story. Further attempts at revenge were 
given up because of the unpopularity of the enterprise. 

Expedition Against Champa. — This also came about 
through Kublai's demand for tribute. Champa (£ ffi) was in 
that part of the peninsula now called Cochin-China. To invade it 
necessitated the passage of a Mongol army through Annam, 
nominally a vassal state of China ; but this plan was fiercely 
contested. While the Mongols under Toghan (ESfe), Kublai's 
son, captured cities, they could hold % none of them, for the 
tropical heat proved more deadly than any weapons of the enemy. 
Stricken down by sickness, they soon found it necessary to retire, 
and it was at this juncture that they were fallen upon by the 
hidden foe with great slaughter. 

The Great Commercial Routes.— In spite of these 
disasters, the Mongols reached the sea. They had three routes 



220 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



by which they communicated with Europe; the two land routes 
through Nan Lu and Pei L,u, and the maritime route. The last 
had been the route of the Chinese and the Arabs and lay along the 
vast coast line extending from ports in Chekiang and Fukien to 
Genoa and Florence. Trade was either carried on through the land 
routes to Kara Karom and Peking, or by sea through the ports 
of Ainoy, Canton, Foochow and Hangchow. While the accidents 
of war, diplomacy, and other circumstances brought men in all 
walks of life from the outside world into China through these 
routes, the Chinese also found their way into lands far from home. 
It is stated that about this time Chinese engineers were employed 
on the banks of the Tigris, and Chinese astrologers and physicians 
could be consulted at Tabriz. 

Of the Europeans who visited China 
during the reign of Kublai, Marco Polo 
has left us a minute description of what 
he saw of the land and its people. This 
was the Pu Lo (iff®), at one time the 
vice-president of Kublai 's war council 
(ftftfitftt). 

Lamaism, the State Religion of 
the Mongols. — The state religion of the 
Mongols was Eamaism, or the faith of 
Tibet. After the death of Srong Tsan 
Gampo, the Han Ming Ti of Tibet, 
Buddhism in that country began to decline. Between A.D. 
740 and 781, a subsequent king of Tibet sent again to India for 
priests and literature. In response to his request a number of 
Indian priests came; and this is commonly believed to have been 
die beginning of Iyamaism in Tibet. By the time Kublai invaded 
Tibet, the priests, or Lamas as they were called, occupied a 
position in the state similar to that of the Catholic Church in the 
Europe of the Middle Ages. In other words, their functions were 
both temporal and spiritual. The conversion of Kublai to this 
faith is said to have followed closely his expedition into Tibet. 




Marco Polo 



Outlines of Chinese history 221 

When Emperor of China he appointed a young lama king- of Tibet, 
thereby laying the foundation of a custom that makes the head of the 
church also the head of the state, and the ruler of China at the 
same time the overlord of the country. He appointed the same 
lama State Teacher to China, and adopted Lamaism as the state 
religion for his people, although he himself was still Confucian in 
his state ceremonies. The decrees of the state teacher had the 
same effect in the eyes of his subjects as if they had come direct 
from him. 

Even to-day Lamaism has great influence in Mongolia, the 
Lama priesthood being the most honorable calling in life. 

The Coming of the Franciscans. — It was towards the close 
of the reign of Kublai (1292) that Jean de Montcorvin (^HiH*^) , 
bearing credentials from Pope Clement V, reached China and was 
given permission by the Grand Khan to build a church at Cam- 
bulic. The success of Montcorvin among the Chinese was so 
great that he was later made Archbishop of Cambulic and other 
missionaries were sent out from home to assist him. The cause 
of Christianity continued to prosper in China until the end of the 
Yiian Dynasty. According to Marco Polo, Kublai had, during 
the earlier part of his reign, sent a letter to the Pope asking him to 
send 100 missionaries to educate the Chinese. The Pope, 
however, only sent two, and these never reached China. It 
would seem that after this failure to introduce Christianity into 
China, Kublai looked to Lamaism for an influence that would 
civilize a warlike people. 



222 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER XXVII 
THE DECLINE OF THE YUAN DYNASTY 

Introductory. — With the exception of Kublai, the Yuan 
Dynasty conld boast of no great emperors. The dynasty was 
never firmly established in China; and it very soon began to 
decline. From the steppes in the north, the Mongols were called 
upon not only to make a new home in the milder climate of the 
south, but also to govern an empire "founded on horseback." 
Having little civilization of their own, they inevitably adopted 
that of the conquered. Amidst luxuries and flatteries, they soon 
became enervated and effeminate; and, in addition to the vices 
common to their race, acquired the vices of those with whom 
they had come into contact. 

In the work they were required to perform, they were 
utterly devoid of the experience that makes success certain. By 
withholding positions of trust from the Chinese, the Mongols 
kept constantly before the eyes of the people the fact that they 
were being governed by foreigners; while the men they employed, 
being foreigners, naturally had little sympathy with the Chinese 
and were ever ready to abuse their political powers in order to 
further their own interests. A case in point was that of Ahamed, 
the first finance minister under Kublai. He was a Persian by 
birth, and through his tyrannies and exactions he perished at the 
hands of an assassin. In 1303, 18,473 officials were found guilty 
of having accepted bribes ; and that investigation, as is often the 
case in China, was perhaps not very thorough. Ten years later it 
was found necessary to enact a law providing for the branding of 
officials found guilty of embezzlement. From these facts we may 
form an idea as to the extent to which corruption had crept into 
the ranks of the Mongol statesmen of those days. The Mongols 
needed money very badly, and in their eagerness to secure it they 
were often blind as to the means their agents employed. They 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



2->; 



knew that they had found a gold mine in China ; but they tried 
to work it without the aid of an engineer. Ere long it caved in 
and swallowed up every one at work in it. 

The Successors of Kublai. — After Kublai the history of the 
dynasty was a record of civil disorders and of usurpations of regal 
power by ministers who made and unmade kings at will. The 
custom of electing the khakhan was no longer in vogue after the 
transfer of the capital to Peking, and yet the Mongols did not 
adopt the' Chinese custom of succession. The consequence was 
that at the death of each emperor there were always rival claimants 



% I* m ®%n $w 






Inscription on Stone Drum 



to the vacant throne, and, with one or two exceptions, no one 
mounted it without court intrigues and bloodshed. In the space 
of seventy-two years there were no less than ten emperors, most of 
whom were mere lads when they came to the throne and died 
after a few years of debauchery. Kublai died in 1294 and was 
succeeded by his grandson, Temur Khan, or as he was otherwise 
called, Ulcheitu Khan. The reign of this monarch (1295-1307) 
was chiefly remarkable for another expedition into Burmah which 
met with a most disastrous result. This was the last of its kind 



224 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

in the history of the Yuan Dynasty. Kaisun, who ruled from 
.1308 to 1311, appointed his brother, Ayuli Palpata, his heir- 
apparent, and the latter succeeded him at his death. This ruler, 
canonized as Jen Tsung (iz'%), was a man of considerable culture 
and a substantial patron of Chinese literature. Among the things 
he did, he re-instated the literary examination of the Sungs ; but 
an act of far greater benefit to the world of letters was his 
restoration of the celebrated inscribed "stone-drums" (tftfc), 
commonly said to be of the Chou period (B.C. 1122-255). These 
he rescued from the decay and ruin to which they had been left 
by the last of the Kin rulers, and placed them in the gateway of 
the Confucian Temple in Peking, where they now stand. The 
next sovereign, Gegen, was the first ruling descendant of Jenghis 
who met his death by the knife of an assassin. 

The Lawlessness of the Lamas. — Since Lamaism was the 
state religion of the Mongols the influence of the lamas as officers 
of the state church was very great during the time of the Yuan 
Dynasty. One of them, who was the chief priest of Kiang Nan, 
opened the tombs of the Sung Dynasty and after robbing them of 
all the valuables that had been buried in them, "scattered the 
bones to the dogs." Another seized the wife of an imperial prince 
in the street in Peking and stabbed her because she refused to let 
his carriage pass hers. Both of these escaped punishment. No 
real estate of value was safe ; its owner either surrendered it to 
the lamas on demand, or suffered it to be forcibly taken away 
from him. Nor was the family of a pretty girl happy, for the 
lamas of those days were permitted to marry and they simply took 
wives as they pleased and without any ceremony whatever. Men 
made complaints to the local authorities of having their property, 
or their wives and daughters seized by the lamas; but the culprits 
were above the law. To assault a lama was a crime punishable 
by the chopping off of the hands ; to curse him meant the cutting- 
out of the tongue. 

While committing crimes themselves in broad daylight, the 
lamas also assisted others to break the law. Any criminal sen- 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 225 

tenced to death could obtain his pardon by paying enough money 
to a lama, and only those who were too poor to buy their lives 
were led to the execution ground. Special days were set apart 
each year for worship on which prayers were offered for the khan 
and other members of the reigning house. On these occasions, 
the chief priest often requested the government to set free a num- 
ber of criminals, who had been condemned to die, on the ground 
that nothing could assist the prayer for the khan more effectively 
than this proof of the readiness on his part to forgive. If any 
subject of the khan felt the burden of the taxation all he needed 
to do was to go and see a lama who was by law exempted from 
taxation. He might have obje Lion to becoming a lama himself, 
but his end was served quite as well by paying a small fee to this 
privileged character and having his property registered in the 
latter 's name. In this way the church was constantly growing in 
wealth at the expense of the state, and was also a constant drain 
on the treasury. According to the statistics for the year 1317 
the cost of the maintenance of a single church in Peking, exclusive 
of other items, was 439,500 catties of flour, 27,300 catties of honey, 
79,000 catties of oil, and 21,870 catties of butter and cheese. 

The Reign of Tohan Temur. — Tohan Temur was the 
last of the Mongol khans that sat on the Chinese throne in Peking. 
He was not in line of succession but the empress of the preceding 
emperor made him heir by setting aside her own son. He was a 
weak man, and as soon as he secured the imperial power he bestow- 
ed it on his prime minister. The thirty-five years of his reign 
were noted for great natural disturbances. Floods, earthquakes, 
landslips, comets, the falling of meteors, the raining of " blood " — 
all crowded into this reign. The Chinese historians, it should be 
remembered, were especially fond of recording those events at 
that period because they thought that through them God made 
known His displeasure. While science does not sustain these 
views, the events had close connection with the general uprisings 
which took place in more than one part of the empire. When 
floods and earthquakes made cities desolate for miles, the people 



226 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

found it easy to plunder and kill. The appearance of a comet or 
other unusual things often caused them to think that the day had 
come for them to break away from the foreign rule and at length 
encouraged them to take up arms against the state. When the 
emperor ordered the levy of 70,000 men to excavate a new channel 
for the Yellow River and imposed a heavy tax to meet the expense, 
lie merely added fuel to the fire. Under various leaders the 
insurgents captured a number of cities in Kiang Nan and Honan 
and most of the southern provinces. While these combined dis- 
orders were disturbing the peace of the empire, Tohan Temur, 
under the guidance of two Tibetan lamas, gave himself up to 
sexual enjoyments, or as the lamas called them "the secret 
pleasures of entrancement " ($£ S) . 

The Rise of Chu Yuan-ehang.— Chu Yuan-chang was the 
rebel leader that finally restored the Chinese empire to the 
Chinese. The early life of this man, a native of Hochow, now 
Fengyangfu, Anliui province, was by no means happy. He 
entered the Buddhist priesthood at the Huang Chueh Monastery 
at an early age, not because of his faith but because he had no 
means of livelihood, having lost both parents and all his nearest 
relatives. When Kuo Tzii-hsing (iB^^), a rebel leader, took 
Hochow, Chu Yiian-chang put off his priestly robe and joined his 
standard. Chu did good work, winning victories over the well- 
trained Mongols with his rural recruits ; and after death of the 
Generalissimo, as Kuo Tzu-hsing was then called, he became the 
chief in 1355. The next few years found him actively engaged in 
operations against his rival, Ch'en Yu-liang k$$. $C ISC), in the Liang 
Hu and Kiangsi. Having subjugated the two provinces, he turned 
eastward and conquered Chekiang and Kiangsu in which another 
rebel chief, Chang Shih-ch'eng (3H -± ififc), had intrenched himself. 
From Kiangsi one detachment entered Fukien and sailing along the 
coast captured Kuangtung. Meanwhile another detachment enter- 
ed Kuangsi by way of Hunan. During all this time, the Mongols 
wasted their energies and treasure by continuing a civil w r ar 
between the heir-apparent and the prime minister, and left Chu 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY .227 

Yuan-chang in the south to march wherever he pleased. Having 
conquered the southern provinces, Chu Yuan-chang began to 
make inroads north of the Yangtze, where his arms were quite as 
successful as they had been in the south. In 1367 Tohan 
Temur, seeing that everything in China was gone, fled from Peking 
and sought safety on the banks of the Dolouor. He died the 
following year in Kara Koram, and China was again in the hands of 
the^Chinese ! The Mongols after an interval of eighty-eight years 
were made to hand back the land to its rightful owners leaving 
no contribution of a permanent character behind them. It is a 
curious coincidence that while the Chinese emperor from whom 



4}-Wft'&*ft*~ 








Paper Currency, Miug Dynasty 



228 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



the Mongols took the empire was forced to become a Buddhist 
priest, it was a Buddhist priest that wrested the empire from 
them. In the first case, we have the first instance where an ex- 
emperor of China became a Buddhist priest; in the second case, 
the first instance of an ex-priest's becoming the Emperor of China 
and the founder of a new dynasty. This new dynasty, Chu Yiian- 
chang named the Ming, or the " Bright "; and he made Nanking 
his capital. 

The Paper Currency of the Mongols. — Paper currency had 
been known in China long before the Mongols came into power, 
but it was under them that its circulation became general. The 
first attempt to introduce anything in the shape of a bank note 

was made in the latter part of the 
T'ang Dynasty, A.D. 806, when 
bills of exchange, called " Flying 
Money" (M £!), were issued in 
place of copper cash. The Sung 
Dynasty in 1023 issued what was 
called Hui Tzii (f-^) but its circu- 
lation was confined to the province 
of Szechuan, where the iron cash 
was in use. The Golden Tartars 
adopted a paper currency called 
Chiao Tzu C^ 1 ?-), because they 
found copper scarce. Copper, silver 
and gold have always been found 
for the most part in South China. 
When the Mongols came into China 
they simply continued the system 
of their predecessors. The notes 
in circulation under them were 
of three different kinds issued 
at three different periods. Those 
issued during the first period were 
based upon silk; those of the 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 221) 

second period, upon silver; and those of the third period, upon 
copper. Any one could have a spoilt bank note replaced by 
paving three per cent of its value at the mint. It has been 
estimated that the total output of notes during Kublai's reign of 
thirty-five years was equal to $624,135,500. All efforts of the 
government did not keep the value of its notes at par. On 
the contrary they depreciated to an extreme degree. The cause 
is readily seen. Trade with the West flourished and silver and 
gold, which were very much needed, reached China in large 
quantities. But instead of keeping them as the necessary 
reserve, they were ignorantly scattered with a free hand. They 
were lavishly distributed in gifts to members of the imperial 
family, to successful soldiers, and to civil efncers for great 
services. On one occasion in the year 1334, after a victory, 
a guardsman received 400 taels of gold and 900 taels of 
silver. His followers each received 200 taels of gold and 700 
taels of silver. Ninety-six men received in gold 2,400 taels, in 
silver 5,600 taels; in addition to 91 gold waist bands and 1,300 
pieces of silk. The princes engaged each received 100 taels of 
gold, 500 taels of silver, one gold sash, and eighteen pieces of gold 
embroidery. This system continued for nearly a century. No 
copper cash were minted by the Mongols. Towards the close of 
the dynasty the notes had practically lost all their value and this 
financial blunder on the part of the Mongols was in no small 
measure responsible for their expulsion from China. 

Some Court Ceremonies of the Mongols. — It seems to have 
been the Mongol custom after an election for four of the princes of 
the blood to raise the new khakhan aloft on a piece of white felt and 
for two others to support him while a third offered him the clip. 
Meanwhile prayers were offered by the lama and carts full of pieces 
of gold and rich tissues were brought out and distributed. So many 
pearls were brought out on the ground that it resembled the sky. 
The feast lasted a week during each day of which 40 oxen and 
4,000 sheep were consumed. Libations of milk from 700 cows and 
7,000 ewes were sprinkled on the ground. 



230 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

"When the khakhan sat on the throne, the queen was on his 
left hand, and a step lower, two others of his women, while at the 
bottom of the steps, the other ladies of his family. All those who 
were married wore upon their heads the foot of a man, as it were, a 
cubic and a half in length, and at the top of the foot there were 
certain cranes' feathers, the whole foot being set with great pearls, 
so that if there were in the whole world any fine and large pearls 
they were to be found in the decoration of those ladies.' ' 

The Age of Novels and Dramas.- -If the Mongol Dynasty 
contributed little of value in the realm of literature, it will be 
remembered in connection with the two important departures in the 
literary history of the nation — the drama and the novel. We are 
unable to say positively when these arose ; but we know that it was 
with in the century covered by the Mongol rule that they came into 
existence. 

It would appear that the actor's art was known among the 
Tartars at a somewhat earlier date. In 1031, Kung Tao-fu 
(?L it if), a descendant of Confucius, was sent as an envoy to the 
Khitans by whom he was received with a theatrical entertainment. 
In one of the pieces played Confucius was introduced as a low- 
comedy man. This so disgusted him that he got up and withdrew 
and the Khitans were forced to apologize. It is probable that the 
drama was introduced from Tartar sources during the thirteenth 
century. Even to-day the Tartars are especially fond of this mode 
of entertainment, and the best troupes of actors are to be found in 
Peking. The novel also probably came from Tartar sources. Its 
demand was possibly created by the story-tellers of Central Asia who 
came to China in the wake of the Mongol conquest. Perhaps the 
drama and the novel were born at the same time. 

Of the plays of the Mongol Dynasty, the Hsi-hsiang-chi (M Jfs 
IE), or the Story of the Western Pavilion, a story of love and 
intrigue is by general consent given the first place. It is by Wang 
vShih-fu (i M if), of whom little is known except that he flourished 
in the thirteenth century and wrote thirteen pieces, all of which were 
included in the collection mentioned. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 231 

As to the novel, the best production of the period was the 
Shui Hu-chuan O-N^fil), said to have been written by Shih Nai- 
an (jj£ aft fig). This story is based upon the- doings of an historical 
band of brigands who act nail} terrorized a couple of provinces 
under the Sung Dynasty. The book is admired for the insight 
given into Chinese manners and customs. Although approaching 
the colloquial in style, it maintains a literary dignity and beauty 
unparalleled among novels. 



232 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER XXVIII 



THE MING DYNASTY 



The Reign of Hung Wu, — Chu Yuan-chang, the founder 
of the Ming Dynasty, was canonized as T'ai Tsu (± jffl.) ; but is 
better known by the name of Hung Wu (gt &) under which he 
reigned. We must not suppose that his sway extended over the 
whole of China, when he ascended the throne at Nanking. On 
the contrary, the western provinces, notably Szechuan and Yunnan, 
still held out against him, while the Mongols beyond the Great 
Wall continued to menace China. 
Tohan Temur {% M ft) was suc- 
ceeded in the khakhanate by his 
son, Biliktu Khan, who in turn 
was succeeded by Ussakhul Khan 
in 1 379. Under these new khans 
sporadic attempts were made by 
the Mongols to regain their lost 
empire. The renewal of conflict, 
however, only resulted in a still 
greater triumph for the first 
emperor of the Mings. The war 
was soon carried into Mongolia. 
Even on their own ground the HuNG Wu 

disheartened Mongols were not able to resist the attacks of the 
Chinese. After a series of battles, they were driven back to their 
original home along the course of the Kerulun, abandoning the 
whole of Manchuria and that part of Mongolia south of the desert 
to the Chinese. The battle of 1388 fought in the neighborhood 
of Lake Buyur was a decisive one ; and besides the slain, 2,994 
officers and 77,000 soldiers were said to have been taken prisoners 
by the Chinese. The glory of the Mongolian campaign belonged 
to Hsu Ta (ffc 3§) and Feng Sheng (M 0), two of the ablest generals 
Hung Wu had. 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 233 

As regards Szechuan and Yunnan, the former was conquered 
in 1371, and the latter several years later. Towards the close of 
the reign of Hung Wit the King of Corea accepted the suzerainty 
of the Chinese emperor and Burmah was forced to pay tribute. 
In two years (1391-93) the population rose from fifty-six million 
to sixty million. 

[Meanwhile Hung Wu had shown his statesmanship by 
establishing a civil government for the empire on the model of the 
T'ang Dynasty. He patronized literature and encouraged educa- 
tion. Schools were established and the administration of justice 
was improved. 

The Chinese Essay. — In spite of the many good things that 
may be said to the credit of Hung Wu, he will ever be remembered 
in connection with a form of evil which has eaten into the very 
heart of the nation. This was the system of triennial examina- 
tions, or rather the form of Chinese composition, called the 
"Essay ({&««," or the "Eight Legs (AK)," which, for the first 
time in the history of Chinese literature, was made the basis of 
ainiterary contests. It was so-named, because after the introduc- 
tion of the theme the writer was required to treat it in four 
paragraphs, each consisting of two members, made up of an equal 
number of sentences and words. The theme was always chosen 
from either the Four Books (US?!), or the Five Classics (IH). 
The writer could not express any opinion of his own, or any 
views at variance with those expressed by Chu Hsi (3c M) and his 
school. All he was required to do was to put the few words of 
Confucius, or whomsoever it might be, into an essay in conformity 
with the prescribed rules. Degrees, which were to serve as 
passports to government positions, were awarded the best writers. 
To say that the training afforded by the time required to make a 
man efficient in the art of such writing, would at the same time 
qualify him to hold the various offices under the government, was 
absurd. But absurd as the whole system was, it was handed down 
to recent times from the third year of the reign of Hung Wu, and 
was not abolished until a few years ago. No system was more 



234 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



perfect or effective in retarding the 
intellectual and literary development 
of a nation. With her " Eight Legs," 
China long ago reached the lowest 
point on her down-hill journey. It is 
largely on account of the long lease of 
life that was granted to this rotten 
system that the teachings of the Sung 
philosophers have been so long 
venerated. 

The Political Divisions of the 
Empire. — The China of the Ming- 
Dynasty was divided into thirteen 
provinces, viz., Shantung, Shansi, 
Shensi, Honan, Chekiang, Kiangsi, 
Hukuang, Szechuan, Fukien, Kuang- 
tung, Kuangsi, Yunnan, and Kuei- 
chow ; the present province of Chihli 
being known as the north metropolitan 
province while the provinces of Kiang- 
su and Anhui, the south metropolitan 
province. With the exception of 
Hukuang, which is now divided into 
two provinces, the names of the other 
provinces remain unchanged to the 
present day. In fact the Chinese 
character #, meaning "province," owes its significance to the 
Mings. Besides the provinces, there were nine frontier cities {% 
£!) where strong garrisons were maintained. These were L,iaotung 
(mm, Chi Chou (fijW), Hsiian Fu (ItJfr), T'ai T'ung (±1*1), 
Yuling (mm, Ning Hsia (^ 5), Kansu (IT HI), T'ai Yuan (*«), 
and K'u Yuan (m j%). The Treasurer (ft j& M) was the highest 
authority in a province ; the offices of governor (M |fc) and viceroy 
(& 'B) were not created until the dynasty drew towards its close ; 




Painting. Ming Dynasty 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



...» 



and these existed only at places near the northern frontier, or 
where there were military operations. 

The Ming empire stretched from the China v Sea to the famous 
Pass of Chia yii Knan (HlHl!), and from Yiin Chung- (ft tf*) to 
Ch'iung Ai (*ftH). During the reign of Yung Le (&$&), the 
third sovereign of this line (1403-24), Annam was added as the 
fourteenth province, but was abandoned after his death. 

The Rebellion of Prince Yen. — At the death of Hung Wu 
( 1398) the throne was left to his grandson, Hui Ti (M ft) , to the 
disappointment of his surviving sons- All of them held fiefs in 




Ruins, Entrance Gate, Ming Palace 

different parts of the empire under the old feudal system which 
had been re-established by the first emperor of the Mings. The 
Prince of Yen, afterwards Ch'eng Tsu, the fourth son, was by 
far the ablest general and possessed the greatest army both in 
numbers and strength. To complicate the situation further, the 
young emperor set himself to work to deprive his uncles of 
their domains. He succeeded in putting several of them to death ; 
but, before he could lay his hand on the Prince of Yen, the latter 



236 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

unfurled the standard of revolt. The valor of the Yen soldiers 
bore down everything before them. Having overrun Shantung" 
and the valley of the Huai, they captured Yangchow (H jN1). The 
commander of the fleet at Kua Chow (IMH), whose business was 
to prevent the rebels from crossing the Yangtze, surrendered. 
His example w r as followed by the commandant of the city of 
Chinkiang (MU) . Nanking was the next city besieged. Hui Ti 
acted bravely, but was not supported by his generals, one of 
whom opened the gates to Prince Yen. Upon entering the city, 
the Prince found the imperial palaces in flames. A search was 
made for the emperor but no one seemed to know his whereabouts. 
According to one account, the emperor, having set fire to his 
palaces, shaved his head and, in the guise of a Buddhist priest, 
made good his escape and spent the remainder of his unhappy 
days in the western provinces. Verses said to have been com- 
posed by him during his period of exile are still extant. At 
any rate, he resigned his throne to his uncle without further 
struggle. 

The accession of Ch'eng Tsu was marked with fearful atrocities. 
For days the wholesale slaughter of ministers went on; and these 
men were butchered for no other crime than that of having been 
faithful to his unfortunate nephew if, indeed, it may be viewed in 
the light of a crime. The families of several of them perished also. 
But at length, tired of the place which was the scene of his crimes* 
Ch'eng Tsu moved his capital in 1421 to Peking, which, from that 
time forth, has continued to be the capital of China. 

The Last of the Jenghis Khanates.— In one of the previous 
chapters we have seen how after the death of Jenghis Khan, his 
vast empire in the West was parcelled out among his relatives, and 
how they secured their independence. These continued to wage 
wars against one another till they were united again under Temur 
the Lame, a descendant of Jenghis Khan. With his wild Mongol 
hordes, he traversed almost every land into which the arms of his 
predecessors had carried destruction. After his successful campaign 
in India, he was on the point of invading China, when death over- 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 237 

took him in 1405 at the city of Otra. This was the third year of the 
reign of Ch'eng Tsu. 

The Annexation of Annam. — In spite of the manner in which 
Ch'eng Tsu seized the throne., he was a worthy successor of his 
great father. In the twenty-two years that made up his reign, 
we see Annam annexed and the tribes of Mongolia subdued. 

While the civil war above mentioned was going on in China., 
the throne in Annam was seized by a usurper, named Li Chi-li 
(fg^^O. He made representations to the Chinese emperor, his 
overlord, that the old reigning house was extinct. The whole 
truth, however, came to light when, shortly afterwards, the rightful 
heir made his appearance before the Chinese court and requested 
aid to regain his throne. Under a Chinese escort the youthful 
Annamese prince set out on his journey home, but. only to be 
murdered by the agents of Li Chi-li. This so enraged Ch'eng Tsu 
that he (1406) despatched two armies to invade Annam, one by 
way of Kuangsi and the other by way of Yunnan. On the Red 
River, the Annamese were completely routed. Their capital was 
taken, the usurper was made prisoner, and their country (in 1407) 
became a Chinese province, divided into fifteen prefectures, forty- 
one departments, and two hundred and eighty districts. The Chinese 
rule in Annam, however, was not a success; and in 1428 its 
government was restored to the natives upon their agreeing to pay a 
yearly tribute. 

Meanwhile a large fleet of sixty-two vessels sailed (1405) 
from Soochow into the South China Sea, along the old route of 
the Mongols, for the ostensible purpose of finding out the where- 
abouts of Hui Ti. The expedition failed in this; but it succeeded 
in exacting tribute from the Loochoos, Cambel, Bengal, Burmah, 
Malacca, Borneo, Sumatra and Java. The principal feature of 
interest was that this expedition was commanded by Cheng 
Ho, a eunuch. He made several trips after this, the outcome of 
which was that for a century or so Chinese trade flourished in the 
South China Sea to the exclusion of other nations. 



238 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Chinese Invasions of Mongolia. — Gun Temur, the seventh 
khan after Tohan Temur, was murdered by one Kulichi, who in 
turn met his death at the hands of Oroktai, a descendant of one of 
the brothers of Jenghis Khan. The Mongol nation was then 
broken up into man}' tribes, the real power being the Oirats. When 
Oroktai killed Kulichi, he invited a younger brother of Gun Temur 
from Samarkand to take the throne. This was Buyashili. Having 
heard of the change that had taken place in Mongolia, Ch'eng Tsu 
sent an ambassador to Buyashili demanding submission. Instead of 
complying with this demand, Buyashili caused his representative to 
be put to death, an event which led to the renewal of the war 
between the Mongols and the Chinese. 

In 1409, Ch'iu Fu (J$IS), a Ming general, invaded Mongolia 
but was defeated. His defeat by no means discouraged Ch'eng Tsu. 
On the contrary, he took the field himself, in the following year, 
at the head of 500,000 men and dispersed the Mongols on the banks 
of the Onon, thus forcing Buyashili to flee to the court of Mahmud, 
the khan of the Oirats. Here the fugitive having been barbarously 
put to death, Mahmud appointed his own son, Delbeck, to the 
Tatar throne. This appointment offended Oroktai, who, joining 
the banner of Ch'eng Tsu, led the victorious Chinese into the land of 
the Oirats. The latter made no better resistance than the Tatars, 
who fought under Buyashili. Driven out of his home to seek 
safety on the banks of the Tola, Mahmud could do nothing but 
submit (1414). This completed the subjugation of Mongolia. The 
last expedition of this kind was that of 1422 when Ch'eng Tsu was 
called upon to put down the rebellion headed by Oroktai. On the 
approach of the Chinese army, Oroktai fled but Ch'eng Tsu did not 
return until he had overrun the country of the Ulianghai. The 
followers of Oroktai were the ancestors of the Khor Chiu of the 
present day. 

Inroads of the Mongols. — After Ch'eng Tsu's death (1424), 
his successors were never able to maintain their authority in Mongo- 
lia. Toghan, the successor of Mahmud, taking advantage of the 
state of confusion prevailing in Mongolia and the weakness 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE .HISTORY 239 

of China, created quite an empire for himself. On his death (1443) 
his throne fell to Essen, his son, who was no degenerate successor. 
Having extended his sway to Hanii in the west and Ulianghai in 

the east, he was read}' to measure strength with the Emperor of 

China, hitherto his overlord. The emperor at this time was Ying 

• 
Tsung (t£^), a mere puppet in the hands of a powerful eunuch, 

named Wang Chen (3E M). Because of the ill-treatment accorded 

to the tribute-hearing envoys from Essen, the Mongols began to 

make inroads into China. In the beginning of 1449, the fourteenth 

year o\ Ying Tsung's reign, they were before the city of Ta Tung. 

An army of half a million men was raised and despatched under 

Wang Chen to the rescue of the city. Against the wishes of his 

council, Ying Tsung was induced to accompany the expedition. On 

arriving at Yang Ho, it was discovered that the army was in no 

condition to fight; and at the entreaties of the generals, a retreat 

was at once ordered. But at Tu Mu (± fc) , the imperial army 

was attacked by the Mongols; and, being taken by surprise, the 

Chinese were easily routed with great slaughter. Wang Chen was 

among the slain and Ying Tsung was made prisoner. A large 

ransom was sent to the Mongol camp by the Dowager Empress ; 

but, finding Essen unwilling to give up the person of the emperor, 

the Chinese made the regent, Ying Tsung's brother, Prince of Chen 

and afterwards Ching Ti, emperor. When Essen appeared with the 

royal prisoner before the city of Peking, he found the Chinese had 

completed its defenses. At the approach of the forces gathered 

from all parts of the empire, he found it expedient to retire. 

Yii Ch'ien (f i), a man of no mean ability, was now raised to 

the position of the President of the Board of War. Under the new 

management, a turn in the tide was noticeable. Several fresh 

attempts were made by Essen to capture Ta Tung and Suan Fu, 

but without success. Finding that no benefit could be gained by 

holding the person of an ex-emperor, Essen desired peace and 

offered to return Y r ing Tsung to China. The Chinese preferred to 

leave him in the hands of the Mongols, for they had found a better 

emperor in Ching Ti (^-fr). At length the counsel of Yii Ch'ien 



2-10 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



prevailed, and envoys were despatched to welcome the ex-emperor 
home. But as Ching Ti was unwilling to abdicate the throne, Ying 
Tsung was forced to retire. Through a coup d'etat, which took place 
in 1457 when Ching Ti was seriously ill, Ying Tsung regained his 
throne. Ching Ti died almost immediately thereafter, leaving his 
surviving brother to rule for another eight years. That Ying Tsung 
was not a bit wiser from his unhappy experience, is manifest from 
the fact that no sooner had he regained his authority than he put 
to death Y r ii Ch'ien, the man who had saved China, and heaped 
posthumous honors on Wang Chen, the cause of his own captivity. 
It was the murder of Essen by Ala that at length secured a 
temporary peace to the Chinese frontier. 




Bronze Incense Burner. Hsiian Te Period. ("Chinese Art") 



The Period of Bronze and Lacquer Work.— The reign of 
the emperor Hsiian Te CM. IS) (1426-35) is famous for the bronze 
work that was then done in China. The incense burners, commonly 
called Hsiian Lu (Hsiian being the first name of the reign, and Lu, 
an incense burner) are still highly valued at the present day. No 
similar work of subsequent dates can compare favorably with them. 
The story goes that a great fine in the palace provided an inimitable 
blend of metals for the handicraft of the period. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



241 








Lacquer p- nel 



At about the same time, much progress 
was also made in lacquer work. According 
to ancient authorities, this art originated in the 
days of the great Shun, although no reliable 
records exist as to the kinds of work done in 
that remote period. In fact, we cannot trace 
any of the branches of lacquer work now 
carried on in China further back than the Sung 
Dynasty. It was under the Mings that lacquer 
ware made in China began to compare 
favorably with that of Japanese make. The 
Japanese, undoubtedly, owed the art of making 
lacquer to China ; but they had improved the 
Chinese method to such an extent since the 
days of the introduction of Chinese arts and 
literature into Japan in the third century, that 
during the reign of Hsiian Te a mission was 
sent to Japan to study the industry. Thus we 
find that even in the fifteenth century China 
was obliged to learn something from her apt 
student. Yang Hsiian {% *j|), who flourished 
during the period of Ying Tsung's restoration 
(1457-64), was an expert in this art, hence his 
nickname "Japanese Lacquer" (% &W). 

The following (being a rough translation) 
is taken from a learned Chinese work bearing 
upcn this point, published in 1595 : — 



" In our own Ming Dynasty, the carved lacquer made in the 
reign of Yung Le (1403-24) and that of Hsiian Te, not only 
excelled in the cinnabar colouring and in the finished technique 
of the body,' but also in the literary style of the inscriptions that 
were etched under the pieces. The inscription of Yung Le was 
etched with a needle and filled in with Hack lac; that of Hsiian 
Te engraved with a knife and filled in with gold. The lacquer 
ware of thin body flecked with powder gold, the lacquer work 



242 



OUTLINES 0¥ CHINESE HISTORY 



incrusted with mother-of-pearl, and the lacquer inlaid with the 
plaques of beaten gold and silver, these three kinds are especially 
admired, even by the Japanese/' 




L,acquer Painting 

The chief centre of manufacture under the Stings was the city 
of Chia Hsing Fu (H#!/fr), about halfway between Hangchow 
and Soochow; during the Ming Dynast} it shifted to Foochow and 
Canton. 

Buddhism Under The Mings.— Hung Wu, being an ex- 
Buddhist priest, naturally inclined more favorably to that faith 
than any other. To each of his 23 sons on the day of his receiving 
a feudal appointment, he assigned a monk as his guardian. The 
immediate successors of the founder were also pro-Buddhist. In the 
early part of the reign of Yung Le a Hindu monk of high degree, 
named Pandita, came to Peking and was given an audience by the 
emperor, to whom he presented golden images of the five Buddhas 
and a model in stone of the temple erected over the spot where 
Sakyamuni attained his Buddhahood, or the Diamond Throne, as it 
is commonly called. The emperor not only appointed Pandita state 
hierarch, but also promised to build him a reproduction in stone 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 248 

of the model he had brought to him. This new temple, Wu T'.a Ssii 
(3lJ5#) (Five Towered Temple), was not finished and dedicated 
until the year 1473., the 9th year of the reign of Ch'eng Hua. 
According to the inscriptions on the marble stele set up by the 
side of it, the ." structure in question is an exact reproduction of 
the celebrated shrine in India, in dimensions as well as in every 
detail. This temple, which is situated some two miles west of 
Peking, the Ming Tomb at Nanking — the tomb of Hung Wu, — and 
the Thirteen Mausoleums at Peking, speak well for the architectural 
skill of the Chinese of that period. 

In this connection, mention should be made of an important 
event in the history of Lamaism which took place at this time. A 
great reformer had appeared in Tibet in the person of Tsong Khaba 
(^"SPE). Among the reforms he introduced, he insisted on the 
observance by the lamas of the rule of celibacy. As he and his 
followers wore yellowish garments, they were called "Orange Hoods" 
(M $0 to distinguish them from the "Red Hoods" (ft ifr), the 
followers of the older sect, who all wore red garments. Tsong 
Khaba died in the seventeeth year of Yung Le 
(1419). but his system has gradually displaced 
the older sect. Both the Dalai Lama and the 
Pancheon Lama are the representatives of the 
new sect. Their succession is based upon the 
theory of incarnation. 

On the death of either of them, it is the 

, - . . . , Tsong Khaba 

duty ot the surviving one to ascertain m whose 
body the deceased has been pleased to incarnate himself. To this 
end the names of all male children born after his demise are laid 
before his survivor, who chooses three of them and puts them 
into a golden casket provided for that purpose. After a week of 
prayer, the lots are drawn out in the presence of the surviving great 
Lama and all the dignitaries of the church for that purpose 
assembled, and also in the presence of the representative of the 
Chinese emperor. The child whose name is first drawn becomes 
the rightful successor. 




•211 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER XXIX 
THE MING DYNASTY (Continued) 

Introductory. — We have now to follow the declining fortunes 
of the "Brilliant " Dynasty. The period that is embraced in this 
chapter runs from 1456 to 1627, a space of a little more than a 
century and a half, which is covered by the reigns of nine rulers. 
Most of them were men of immoral life, and in no way fit to occupy 
the ihrone. Under them, eunuchs became an important factor in 
politics. Never before had they secured more complete control of 
the government, or committed more atrocious crimes, or acquired 
such a long lease of power. While the government was called upon 
to put down civil disorders, in most cases, the direct outcome of the 
work of eunuchs, the country was further impoverished by foreign 
wars. With an empty treasury and with loyalty at a low ebb, it is 
no wonder that bands of hungry people, as we shall see in jthe_ 
following chapter, succeeded in overthrowing the government and 
paved the way for the Manchus. 

Early History of the Eunuchs. — In this connection, it will 
be necessary to trace the early history of the eunuchs under the 
Mings. Hung Wu, the founder of the dynasty, was certainly no. 
friend to eunuchs, when he issued a decree to the effect that no 
eunuch should under any circumstance be permitted to meddle in 
state affairs under pain of summary decapitation. This decree he 
caused to be engraved on the iron door of his palace, but it was not 
long before it was completely ignored. During the struggle for the 
throne which took place after his death, many eunuchs managed to 
escape from Nanking with important information for the then 
Prince of Yen, who was coming down upon the capital. Out of 
gratitude, he appointed them to high official positions when he seized 
the throne, thus establishing a precedent which was destined to have 
a most disastrous effect upon his house. Of the part played by 
Wang Chen under Ying Tsung, mention has already been made. 
During the eight years of Ying Tsung's second reign, he was com- 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 245 

pletely under the sway of another eunuch. This was Ts'ao Chi- 
hsiang (W ff jfc) who played an important part in the coup d'etat 
that resulted in the restoration of the throne to Ying Tsung. Hsien 
Tsung (M *£), Ying Tsung's son (1465-87), during the latter part 
of his reign became a mere tool of his favorite concubine Wang 
Kuei-fei (Is j| #E) and the ambitious eunuch, Wang Chih (v£ ul). In 
1499, or the twelfth year of the reign of Hsiao Tsung (# £) (1488- 
1505), a chief eunuch was ordered to commit suicide. On his death 
a paper was found which gave the names of the men who had 
presented him with ''yellow and white grain" together with the 
amount presented by each of them. The emperor Avas surprised to 
hud the quantity of grain that had passed into the hands of his 
eunuch. To his further amazement, he was informed that the 
"yellow and white grain'' were not grain at all, but gold and silver 
respectively. As so many men were implicated, many of them 
being men of high official standing, it was considered best to go no 
further into the matter. 

The Reign of Wu Tsung (A.D. 1506-1521 ).— The first 
period when the power of the eunuchs reached its highest point was 
in the reign of Wu Tsung (b£^), or Cheng Te (IE #.), as he was 
better known by the name of his reign than his posthumous title. 
Of the Ming rulers he is the most interesting figure. Being- 
linguistic, he could read Sanskrit, Mongolian, and Arabian, and 
gave himself a name in each language, besides conferring upon 
himself a long title as the Living Buddha. He was active and 
refused to submit to the fate of Chinese emperors in so far as his 
imprisonment in the palace was concerned. Many times he travelled 
through parts of his empire in disguise. If a Chinese emperor was 
the Commander-in-Chief of the army in theory, he was one in 
practice. He made himself Field-Marshal (j$ $t ~X ffi ¥). In this 
capacity, he led man} expeditions against the Mongols and the 
rebels. Once after a slight victory over the Mongols, he decreed 
that the Field Marshal should be raised to a Duke. He was said to 
be one of the strongest and most domineering men of his day. 
Nothing pleased him so much as to appear in his military uniform. 



246 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Under the guidance of upright men, he would doubtless have made 
an ideal ruler; but unfortunately he fell under the sway of eunuchs 
and their unworthy creatures. The principal object of his travels 
was his own pleasure, for he was immoral in his private life. While 
fishing in a small boat in the pond which formed a part of his 
eunuch's private ground in Kiang Nan, he fell into the water and 
contracted a disease which finally proved fatal. He died childless 
in 1521, in the ''Leopard Room" (as his pleasure palace was then 
called), which was the scene of all forms of vice. 

Liu Chin. — Liu Chin (gflil), the eunuch, who rose to be the 
virtual head of the government under Wu Tsung, needs special 
mention. He had been a favorite of the emperor even before his 
accession. He and seven of his colleagues were so much dreaded 
that they were known as the "Eight Tigers (A j&).'' To get rid of 
the " Tigers " was the object of the ministers, when Wu Tsung 
came to the throne ; but their impeachment, instead of landing them 
in prison, resulted in raising Liu Chin to the highest position, that 
is the Ssu Li Chien (SUM), or eunuch in charge of state ceremonies. 
This office was one peculiar to the Mings. The duty of its 
incumbent, as he was often called upon to frame decrees issued in 
the name of the emperor, was no less important than that of a 
Grand Councillor of later days. In this connection, mention should 
be made of the fact that the eunuchs of the Ming Dynasty were 
mostly well educated men, a special school having been founded for 
them in the palace by one of the early emperors. In his new office, 
Liu Chin continued to prey upon the people, and to persecute men 
who had the welfare of their nation at heart. He and his 
colleagues judged and condemned without the least semblance of 
right, and many innocent men were put to cruel and ignominous 
deaths. All state documents were submitted to him first; and, 
without reference to the emperor, he decided every question that 
came up for decision. It was only through one of the Seven Eunuchs 
that his true character was made known to Wu Tsung when 
sentence of death was issued against him. In point of power and 
wickedness, he was surpassed by no one except Wei Chung-hsien, the 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 247 

eunuch who lived in the reign of Hsi Tsung and of whom we shall 
learn more in the proper place. 

Reign of Shih Tsung (A.D. 1532-1566) —On the death of 
Wu Tsung, the Chinese throne was left to Shih Tsung Oft ^), a 
grandson of Hsien Tsung GEa?). This was the first Ming emperor 
who was a devoted Taoist and who therefore looked with aversion 
upon Buddhism, the faith of his fathers. By his order, many 
of the Buddhist temples in Peking were pulled down and the gold and 
silver images in them melted in order to realize money to erect a fine 
palace for his mother. His father being dead, the question at once 
rose as to what title, the son on his accession, should confer on 
him. In other countries such a question is hardly one of national 
interest ; but in China, the land of Confucianism, it proved 
of the greatest concern to the court and to the people at large. 
Shih Tsung wished to do honor to the memory of his father with 
imperial titles, but the majority of his ministers objected. They 
held that as the emperor came to the throne rather as an adopted 
son to Hsiao Tsung (#^), than as a son of the Prince of Hsing 
Hsien (^DO, he really stood to the latter, his own father, in the 
relationship of a nephew to an uncle, hence the proposal of the 
emperor was not in accord with the Confucian laws. For years the 
court was engrossed in this question to the negligence of others of 
far greater importance. When the emperor triumphed a great num- 
ber of men prominent in official and literary circles were dismissed. 
Under the Ming Dynasty every scholar was allowed the privilege of 
addressing die throne direct, and those who were able to quote 
classical authority in support of the contention of the emperor rose 
rapidly in power. 

Further Inroads of the Mongols.— The reign of this 
monarch was not a peaceful one, owing to the fact that the 
Mongols raided the frontier in the north while the Japanese pirates 
harassed the coast in the south. 

About 1470 Mongolia was again consolidated under a 
chief by the name of Dayan Khan (s§ M *1 1?) . After him 



2iS OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Mongolia was parcelled out among his sons and grandsons, his 
youngest son receiving the territory north of the Desert, his second 
son thai part south of it, one of his grandsons the Ordos (M ^) 
country, while another, Yeta (ffc#), the Ying Shan (Eg 111) territory. 
Thus we find the beginnings of the Kalkas (n& Iff n£), Chihar (fit SI), 
Ordos (f 15 # £ J&f), and Tumiid (db KK 4#) tribes. These Mongols 
kept up an incessant raiding on the frontier of China. In 1542 
they began to assemble in more formidable numbers under the 
banner of Yeta, who led them up to Tatung in Shansi. After 
having made many prisoners and laden themselves with plunder they 
returned to their own country in safety. From year to year the 
raids were repeated with more or less success. The Viceroy of 
Shensi, Tseng Hsien (Wlft), wished to take the offensive; but his 
plan was opposed by Yen Sung (jg fg), who had risen to be the real 
power under Shih Tsung, the emperor, who had become too busy 
with his religious matters (& @|) to attend to anything else. In 
1548, Tseng Hsien fell a victim to court intrigue and was beheaded 
without mercy. Two years later, Yeta again appeared at the head 
of an immense horde and penetrated as far as Tung Chow tl W), 
where the graves of the relatives of the emperor were desecrated. 
For eight days the Mongols plundered the surrounding country to 
their hearts' content and returned home in perfect security.' The 
horse fairs (& iU) which China subsequently permitted to be held at 
Hsiian Fu CM. Iff) and Tatung CXM) did not stop these periodic 
incursions. Yeta continued to terrify the Chinese down to the 
close of the reign of Mu Tsung (H 5) (1567-73); but his 
conversion to Lamaism, the direct result of his successful campaigns 
in Tibet and Kokonor (##£), at length saved China. In 1571 a 
treaty of peace was concluded between Yeta and Mu Tsung, when the 
former was made a Chinese prince and acknowledged as the head of 
all the Mongol Tribes. Yeta soon died but the peace lasted as long 
as his widow, whose Chinese name was San Niang Tzu (HftsfF), 
lived. According to Chinese annals, this woman married succes- 
sively several of Yeta's successors and was the real ruler of 
Mongolia. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 249 

The Japanese Piratical Expeditions. — Since the days of 
Kublai Khan, there had been very little intercourse between China 
and Japan. Trade had been confined to a certain class of sea- 
faring people in both countries, who in course of time became more 
pirates than traders. The Japanese, in fact, began to harass the 
coast of China as early as the beginning of the Ming Dynasty, when 
Hung Wu found it necessary to station garrisons along the coast. 
After the year 1419, the 17th year of the reign of Yung Le, in 
which a Japanese marauding party was severely defeated in the 
Liaotung Peninsula, intercourse was renewed by the two governments. 
Trade was no longer forbidden although it was confined to the ports 
in Chekiang. It was the suspension of this trade in the reign of Shih 
Tsung that gave rise to the trouble we are now about to record. 

In spite of the suspension of trade, the Japanese still flooded 
the Chinese market with goods. Owing to the difficulty of making- 
collections, they began to plunder places near Ningpo. The state of 
affairs in Chekiang was such that the government became awakened 
to the gravity of the situation. In 1554 Chang Ching (SI £!), 
President of the Board of War at Nanking (!f jgC^TO*), was ap- 
pointed as the Commander-in-Chief of all the forces sent against the 
Japanese. He wisely refused to give battle until his forces had 
gathered. This precaution on his part was, however, reported to 
Peking by the Inspector (^ ¥), Ch'ao Wen-hua (m £ : #), a satellite 
of Yen Sung (BM), as evidence of his cowardice. Although he 
gained an important victory over the Japanese afterwards when his 
reinforcements arrived, he was put to death and Ch'ao Wen-hua 
appointed in his stead. Ch'ao was not equal to the situation. With- 
out trouble, the Japanese penetrated as far north as Nanking, and 
returned with immense booty to their ships, which were anchored at 
Chu Shan (ft\l]). At times the Japanese suffered reverses, but 
they were only driven out of one place to appear in another along 
the extensive coast line between Shanghai and Canton. Their last 
attempts were concentrated in Fukien, where they captured Amoy 
and Hsing Hwa (fHb), or P'ing Hai Wei (-^ i$ ffr), as the place was 
then called. It was not until 1563 that the Chinese succeeded in 



250 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



re-capturing these cities. Unable to gain a foothold on the main- 
land, the pirates sought shelter in Formosa (#&). They appeared 
off the coast of Kuangtung as late as the reign of Wan Li (^ S) 
(1573-1619). They were less formidable than they had been, their 
number having been reduced to a great extent. 

Conflict with the Japanese in Corea. — When the Japanese 
pirates ceased to be a menace to China, Corea experienced the 
horrors of a Japanese invasion. Fashiba, a Japanese general or 
lord, who was known as Hideyoshi in Japanese, and as P'ing Hsiu- 
chi (^^ta) in Chinese, was bent on gaining a foothold on the 




mainland. With this end in view, he proposed to enter into an 
alliance with Li Yen (^ flg), King of Corea. This, the latter refused. 
In 1592 a Japanese force of 130,000 men was landed at Fushan (3£ 
tfi), and a large fleet despatched to the Corean waters. The country 
was not prepared for this invasion ; and from Fushan, the Japanese 
marched to Seoul ($tl$), the capital, which they took after a 
month's siege. The king's two sons were made prisoners; but he 
himself escaped to a city situated at the mouth of the Ya Lu River 
CS $ tt), whence he sent urgent messages to Wan Li imploring his 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



251 



assistance. China could not well evade this request of the unfortu- 
nate kingj for she too was in danger of a Japanese invasion. 
Accordingly an army was sent into Corea. It met the Japanese 
before the walls of P'ing Jsng (^M), where it was annihilated 
and its commander, Tsu Ch'eng-hsun, (fil^MW), barely escaped with 
his life. The next Chinese army under the command of Li Ju- 
sting (^jto&), fresh from a successful campaign against a Mongol 
rebel in Xing Hsia(&3t), gained a victory over the Japanese in 
P'ing Jang; but, elated by this success, the Chinese general allowed 
himself to be led into an ambuscade near Seoul and overthrown 
(1593). After a year's parleying, peace was concluded with the 
stipulation that Corea was to cede to Japan three of her eight 
provinces. In 1595, the Japanese began to evacuate; but, finding that 
the Coreans never intended to carry out the stipulation, hostilities 
were resumed. No decisive battle took place, although fighting 
continued till 1596, when the death of Fashiba put an end to the 
war and caused the withdrawal of the Japanese. 

This war, extending over seven years, cost China heavily both 
in life and money. After its close, it was found necessary to 




Porcelain making 



252 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

resort to extraordinary measures to raise revenue, including attempts 
to open up mines in certain parts of the empire. Owing to lack of 
expert knowledge and bad management on the part of the eunuchs, 
who were the commissioners of mining, these enterprises were not 
only failures from a financial standpoint; but in mam- cases were 
the cause of local outbreaks. 

Chinese Porcelain. — The reign of Wan Li forms an 
important period in the annals of Chinese ceramic art. The native 
writers say thai at this time ihere was almost nothing that could 
not be made of porcelain. The extravagance of the court 
undoubtedly gave an impulse to the development of the art. Many 
censors of the time indited a series of protests against the 
expenditure by the emperor on mere articles of luxury. Indents 
preserved among the archives of Ching Te Chen (JS; ^i H), show 




Porcelain Bowl 



OUTLINES OP CHINESE HISTORY 253 

that 26,350 bowls with 30,500 saucers to match, 6,000 ewers with 
6,500 wine cups, and 680 garden fish-bowls to cost fifty taels 
each, were requisitioned among a number of other things in 
1554. Chmg Te Chen became the principal porcelain centre under 
Lhe Mings so far as artistic work was concerned. Here all the 
older glazes of repute were constantly reproduced and many newer 
methods, including- the " Wan Li Five Color " (&Jf £§£), were 
invented, to be distributed to all parts of China as well as to 
many other countries. The only factory of note then was that of 
Te Hua (HHb) in Fukien. The potteries established there early 
in the Ming Dynasty are still working to-day, and are famous for 
their production of white porcelain images of Buddha. The 
ceramic art, according to Chinese authorities, originated in the 
days of the great Han Dynasty ; but the long interval between 
that dynasty and the Ming is generally spoken of by them as the 
primitive period, the productions of the Sung Dynasty being 
mostly monochrome glazes. During the troubles attending the 
fall of the Ming Dynasty the art was entirely neglected, and 
it did not revive until the latter part of the seventeenth 
century, or the reign of K'ang Hsi (Ig J&) of the Ch'ing Dynasty 
(1644-1722). 

Arrival of European Traders. — "The year A. D. 1516 is 
a memorable one, from the fact that during it the first vessel that 
we have any record of flying a European flag arrived at Canton. 
It was commanded by a Portuguese of the name of Rafael 
Perestrello. Next year Ferdinand Andrade came with four ships, 
accompanied by a special envoy sent by the governor of Goa, who 
was received. with due honor by the high authorities at Canton. 
In time others of the Portuguese followed, who traded on the 
coast and established themselves at Ningpo and Amoy. In A.D. 
1537 there were no fewer than three portuguese settlements at 
Canton. n * Macao, one of these settlements, it is interesting to 



Macgovvar.'i "Imperial History of Qh'mn" 



254 



OUTLINES OF CHTNICSE HISTORY 







Porcelain Drum 



note, was first occupied under the pretext of drying goods alleged 
to have been damaged in a storm. In 1573 the Chinese 
government built a barrier wall across the isthmus joining Macao 
to Hsiang Shan (#0i). Owing to their ill conduct, the Portuguese 
were later driven out of Ningpo and Amoy but they have held 
Macao to the present day. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



2o5 



After the Portuguese came the Spaniards, who, instead of 
settling oil the mainland, took the Philippine Islands (1543 ). v 
The official mission that they sent to China reached Canton in 
1575, but no great result came of it. Meanwhile trade had been 
carried on to some extent between Fukien and Manila, though the 
Chinese were cruelly treated by the Spaniards and many 
hindrances were placed in the way of their immigration. 

The coming of the Dutch was of still later date. According 
to Chinese account, they made a settlement in Formosa during 
the last year of Wan Li's reign, and then tcok possession of the 
Pescadores. In 1622 they landed a hostile party at Amoy, and 
advanced as far as Changchow before they were finally worsted 
on the mainland and made to retreat to Formosa. 




The landing of the Dutch on the Pescadores 

Introduction of Tobacco.— The result of the trade between 
Fukien and Manila was the introduction of tobacco into that part 
of China, or more particularly into the prefectures of Ch'iianchow 
(&«) and Changchow (flfcffl). The earliest name under which it 
was known in China was $ 6 &, or Tarn Bac Co, as the characters 



♦These islands remained a Spanish possession till the close of the Spanish- 
American war in 1898. They were ceded to America on the payment of 
S 20, 000,000 cold. 



256 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

are pronounced in the Amoy dialect. It was an Amoy Chinese 
of the name of Ma (H) who first taught his countrymen how to 
prepare and use tobacco. " In a short time it found its way to 
all the Nine Frontier Cities." The fact that a decree was issued 
by the last emperor of the Mings forbidding its use shows to what 
extent the evil habit had seized upon the Chinese. 

Reign of Hsi Tsung (1621-27) .—This weak monarch 
was a skilful mechanic. During his reign, a eunuch by the name 
of Wei Chung-hsien (H &H), and his wet-nurse (%fy), K'o Shih 
(%&), gained his affection to an extraordinary degree. This 
eunuch, an ignorant brute, took care to present memorials and 
other state papers to the emperor when he was engrossed in his 
carpentry. The latter would pretend to know everything, and 
bid his unworthy eunuch deal with the questions presented. It 
was thus that Wei rose to be the real ruler. Aided by censors 
who were his creatures, he found no difficulty in depriving the 
government of loyal men, who were either summarily dismissed, 
or put to cruel deaths. In 1626 temples were erected to his 
memory in all parts of the empire excepting Fukien ; and the 
emperor, who never got tired of heaping honors on the eunuch, 
decreed that he should be worshipped with Confucius, because in 
his opinion he was as much a sage as China's Great Teacher. 
Wei and K'o Shih did more to bring about the downfall of the 
tottering dynasty than all the other causes combined. It was 
commonly believed that Wei intended to seize the throne himself; 
but the unexpected death of the infatuated emperor frustrated his 
plans. The punishment that was meted out to him and K'o Shih 
by Hsi Tsung's (m £) successor, will be related in the next 
chapter. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 257 



CHAPTER XXX 
THE DOWNFALL OF THE MING DYNASTY 

Accession of Ch'ung Cheng. — The death of Hsi Tsung left 
the throne to his brother, Ch'ung ChSng (^M), hitherto known as 
Prince of Hsin (1f5E). The new monarch was the reverse of his 
brother. The most important event connected with his accession 
was the punishment that was meted out to the favorites of the 
deceased emperor. "\Yei Chung-hsien was banished to Feng Yang 
(3HP%). Knowing" that banishment was not all that was due him, 
he committed suicide; but this did not prevent his corpse from being 
disfigured and his head from being chopped off and exhibited at 
the usual market place. K'o Shih (& &) received no less severe 
punishment. She and all members of her family were condemned 
to death; many of the infants, it is stated, being still asleep when put 
to the executioner's ax. At about the same time more than two 
hundred high officials were executed, banished, or dismissed, to the 
great joy of the people at large. 

It looked as if better days were about to dawn upon the totter- 
ing empire, but the}- never came. Although the new monarch 
succeeded in getting rid of the authors of misdeeds, yet he could do 
nothing to ward off the danger they had brought upon the nation. 
The corruption of ages could not be done away with by one stroke. 
Nor would the circumstances allow him, energetic and ambitious as 
he was, time to devise an effective remedy. Deserted by the court 
and by the army, he lived to see his empire wrested from him, 
amidst the clamorings of a foreign foe who had for years threatened 
to break into China through the backdoor, and amidst the wrath of 
his own people whom hunger and poverty had driven to take up 
arms against the government. 

Relations with the Manchus. — The rise of the Manchus, 
the conquests of Nurhachu, and his immediate successor, T'ai Tsung. 
and their numerous wars with the Mings, are all matters of Manchu 



258 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

history. Suffice it to say here that the growth of the Manchus 
since the days of Nurhachu (1559-1626) had been marvelous. 
By the time the reign of Ch'nng Cheng drew to its close, the Man- 
chus had taken possession of the whole of Liaotung beyond the 
famous Pass of Shanhaikuan, with the exception of the fortress of 
Xing Yuan ('MM), the entire Corean Peninsula, and parts of 
Mongolia. From their new capital at Mukden, they kept up an 
incessant warfare with the Mings. Although Ning Yuan remained 
in the hands of the Chinese, yet it was due in no small degree 
to the firearms borrowed from the Portuguese and to those 
manufactured under the guidance of the Jesuit missionaries, that 
the Manchus at times would take a roundabout route through 
Mongolia and march to the rear of Peking and cause great conster- 
nation in the capital. This war alone cost the imperial treasury an 
annual outlay of no less than 16,000,000 taels. This was too much 
for a government on the verge of bankruptcy, and the result was 
that by keeping up this conflict, she was soon at the mercy of her 
rebels. 

Beginning of the Rebellion. — The terrible rebellion that 
was destined to bring the Ming Dynasty to an unhappy end origin- 
ated in the province of Shensi. This province for years had been 
the scene of misgovernment and of famine. With starvation 
staring them in the face, men began to gather around various lead- 
ers for the purpose of plundering. The disbandment of the frontier 
carrier service at once swelled their numbers to an alarming" extent, 
for the large number of men who were thrown out of employment 
were mostly natives of Shensi. Riots were of frequent occur- 
rence; but as the brigands had no higher aim than plunder, there 
was no well organized attempt at rebellion. This accounts for 
the fact that while villages and cities fell into the hands of the 
brigands, no attempt was made to hold them. Had a more vigorous 
policy been adhered to, the whole trouble might have been nipped in 
the bud; but unfortunately Yang Hao (H?&l), the Viceroy of the 
province, was a weak man. He resorted to the compromise policy, 
that is, he sought to end the trouble by inviting the brigands 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 259 

to give up their arms and submit. For a short time he was not 
without success; but, as soon as the vigilance on the part of the 
authorities was relaxed, the brigands returned to their plundering 
with renewed vigor and in increased numbers. 

Further Progress of the Rebellion. — By the time the 

viceroy was removed (1631), the rebellion had gradually extended 
into the provinces of Shansi, Honan, Szechuan and Hukuang. The 
most remarkable thing in connection with their desultory warfare 
was the fact that at times the leaders would be at the head of their 
immense armies; and shortly thereafter they would be flying before 
the imperial troops with but a few scattered remnants of their forces. 
The year 1633 was an important one in the history of the 
rebellion. After a series of battles, the brigands were inclosed in 
the hills at Hsing An Chow (^^M), Shensi, where no retreat' was 
possible. At this critical moment, they offered to surrender on 
condition that they should be sent home in safety. Having bribed 
those who had the most influence with the commanding general, 
Ch'en Chi-yii (f^^Jiiiy, the brigands had no trouble in gaining his 
car. Their request was readily granted and guards were appointed 
to accompany them home. To his great surprise, as soon as the 
brigands felt themselves secure, they butchered the guards and laid 
waste the seven districts through which they passed. 

The next year it was found necessary to despatch two armies 
against the brigands, one to operate in places east of the famous 
Tung Kuan Pass and another in places west of it. Both of them 
were doing good work, and were on the point of crushing the rebel- 
lion, when they were withdrawn to Peking in consequence of a 
Manchu invasion, which thus gave the brigands time to regain their 
strength. 

t Capture of Kaifeng. — Of all the brigand leaders, the most 
notorious was Li Tzu-ch'e ng (^ ^ ;fc), a native of Shensi. He did 
not begin to lead the rebellion in his own name until 1640. He had 
gained several important cities in Hunan; but, in his attempt to 
storm Kaifeng towards the close of the year, he lost one eye. This 
marie him retire. When he appeared again before its walls in the 



26(3 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

beginning of the next year he was determined that the place should 
be taken at any cost. After a siege lasting nine months the place 
still held out proudly. As a last resort, Li Tsii-clreng opened a 
passage from the Yellow River, and the city was flooded. The 
distruction of life was terrible. According to the Chinese historians, 
the fall of this important city awakened the slumbering ambition in 
the man, for Li had had no thoughts of an empire until he came 
into possession of Honan and saw how willingly the other brigand 
chiefs accepted his leadership. With his new ambition, he turned 
westward and had the further good fortune to capture Tung Kuan, 
which gave the key to the province of Shensi, his native home. 

Fall of Peking. — Having proclaimed himself as the first 
emperor of the Great Shun (zfcJiIM) Dynasty, and having made Hsi An 
(H3S) his headquarters, his next move was in the direction of Peking. 
No resistance was met till he reached the city of Ning Wu (& $t), 
defended by general Chou Yii-chi (J^iH^s). Ten thousand rebels 
perished in one engagement. When the city was stormed, none of 
its garrison surrendered. Moved by the heroism of the garrison 
and being deeply concerned over his great loss of men, Li called a 
council of his generals. " We are still separated," said he, " from 
Peking by the fortresses of Hsiian Fu (ji/fr), Ta T'ung (;£ l^), and 
Chii Yung (Jgjf), at each of which there is a strong garrison; 
and if they only fight as Ning Wu has done, the result will be 
serious." While he was considering the advisability of withdrawing 
his forces into Shensi, there came, to his great joy, letters of 
submission from the commandants of the two places that he dreaded 
the most, viz., Ta T'ung and Hsiian Fu. At Chu Yung, a eunuch 
opened the gate to him. 

Peking had had no warning until the scouts of the rebels were 
before its walls; and no provision had been made to meet this 
emergency. Ch'ung Cheng wanted to take the field in person, but 
his army existed only on paper. On the approach of Li Tzu-ch'eng 
the city was virtually abandoned, its garrison consisting of only a 
few hundred eunuchs. The same evening one of them opened the 
gates to Li Tzu-ch'eng and the capital was given up to pillage. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 261 

Death of Chung Cheng. — From the top of the Coal Hill, 
Ch'ung Cheng could see the city in flames, an unmistakable sign that it 
was in the hands of the rebels. In great distress he returned to his 
palace which witnessed that evening one of the most pathetic events 
that history has recorded. Desiring that those dear to him should die 
before him rather than fall into the hands of the rebels, he ordered 
the empress to hang herself and killed a number of his concubines. 
He wanted to kill his own daughter also, but after the severing of 
her arm she was unconscious on the ground, where she was left for 
dead. The next morning he mounted the Coal Hill again. With 
his own blood he wrote a letter to the rebel chief, telling him to 
disfigure his (the emperor's) remains, but not to molest the people. 

This finished, he hanged himself with his girdle. By his side, 
hung Wang Ch'eng-en (3E ^ Jt), the only faithful eunuch he had. 
The emperor and the empress were buried with imperial honors 
when the Manchus took possession of the empire. 

Character of Ch'ung Cheng. — No ruler that suffered his 
empire to be wrested from him affords more interesting study than 
Clrnng Cheng. Coming to the throne after two of the worst of the 
Ming rulers, he knew that the dynasty was falling and hoped by his 
own exertions to save it; but failing in this, he perished with it. 
During the seventeen years of his eventful reign, he never enjoyed 
his high office for a moment. On the contrary, he devoted his whole 
time and energy to the welfare of the state. In him we find none 
of the vices that had characterized the majority of the Ming rulers. 

If any blame can with justice be laid at his door, it was his in- 
ability to place the right man at the right place, — a quality that 
makes success certain. In seventeen years he had as many as forty- 
seven prime ministers, and yet none of them gave him satisfaction. 
Towards the close of his reign, as the last resort, he reluctantly 
turned for help to the eunuchs, the class whom he had hated so much 
only a short time before. That many of his eunuchs turned traitors 
needs no repetition here. 

Perhaps even in this respect, he was not so much to blame as 
the character of the age. As a matter of fact, the Mings, having 



262 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

been under the degenerating influence of the Sung philosophers 
so long, had lost their conscience. Honor and loyality were 
conspicuous only through their absence. Divided into political 
parties bent on the destruction of one another, the chief aim of most 
men in politics was their own enrichment regardless of the interests 
of the state. Many of Ch'ung Cheng's generals, instead of leading 
their men to meet the Manchus or the rebels, as the case might be, 
hid themselves in quiet places, and continued to send in reports of 
alleged victories until they could no longer keep the truth from their 
sovereign. Under such circumstances, what could the emperor do? 
After all, it is but just to grant the truth of the emperor's own 
statement when he said : 

" Inasmuch as I am far from being a ruler base enough to be 
the cause of the fall of my empire, every one of you, my ministers, 
is enough to cause it to fall to pieces ! " 

. jAUiance with the Manchus. — Li Tzu-ch'eng was now the 
emperor in Peking, but- his days of glory were few. General Wu 
San-kuei (^ H j i) , who had been stationed at Ning Yuan with the 
flower of the Ming army to keep back the Manchus, had in the 
meantime gone over to the enemy with a view of forming an alliance 
with the latter against Li. No proposition was more welcome to 
the Manchus than that made by Wu. Durgun (£ M ^), the 
Manchu regent (T'ai Tsung had died leaving his throne to a nine- 
year old son, who afterwards became Shun Chih of the Ch'ing 
Dynasty), putting himself at the head of a small but efficient force, 
came to the aid of the distressed general. Near Shanhaikuan, a 
pitched battle was fought between the allies and the rebels, Li him- 
self taking the field. The battle was a very fierce one, and con- 
tinued from morning until sunset. Finally a great storm came and 
at once turned the scale against the rebels, who left the greater 
portion of their men dead on the field. Li Tzu-ch'eng, their leader, 
beat a hasty retreat to Peking, but even there he did not venture to 
rest. Laden with loot, consisting principally of the treasures he had 
succeeded in exacting from the Ming officials by means of the mos t 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



263 



cruel tortures known to history, he set lire to the gate-towers of the 
city and resumed his retreat into Shensi. The unworthy ministers of 
Ch'ung Cheng, who had hoped to make their wealth secure by de- 
claring allegiance to the rebel, not only lost all they had unscrupu- 
lously made, but were also forced to accompany him on foot. Many 
of them died of hardship on the way. 

Final Defeat of Li. — Fortune had now entirely deserted L,i 
Tzii-cheng. He was defeated at every encounter he had with the 
allies. In two years after his retreat from Peking, he was driv* 
out of Shensi, his home, to wan- 
der in the Hukuang province with 
but few followers. The manner 
of his death is a disputed point. 
One account says that he was kill- 
ed by the militia of T ( ung Ch'eng 
(££ $1), a place in Hupeh, while 
another has it that he committed 
suicide by hanging. Still another 
says that he ended his days in the 
Buddhist priesthood. At any rate, 
he never rose again to trouble the 

Manchus ; and though he had overthrown the Ming empire, yet he 
only did the work for others. 

Last Efforts of the Mings.— Having fulfilled their part of the 
contract, the Manchus refused absolutely to evacuate China. " China," 
they declared, "we have taken from the hand of a rebel and not 
from her people." And there was no moral obligation why they 
should hand it back to the degenerate people whom experience had 
shown unfit to govern. All the Mings could hope to do was to 
establish an empire south of the Yangtze after the manner of the 
Sungs, and this was exactly what they tried to do. During all the 
troublous years, the Yangtze region had remained intact except 
certain parts then in the hands of Chang Hsien-chung. With a 




Shih K'o-fa 



26 I 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



good ruler, aided by upright statesmen and loyal citizens, the moment 
was not wholly unfavorable to the Chinese cause. But Fuh Wang 
(#s£), Clrung Cheng's brother, whom Shih K'o-fa (&pj*£) and a 
number of military magnates set up at Nanking as his successor, 
was not the man. Shih K'o-fa, the head of the new empire, had 
his hands tied by the ambition of his generals who were quarrelling 
among themselves most of the time. Soldiers and generals were 
numerous, but they simply melted away on the approach of the 
Manchus. After the Nanking undertaking, the Mings made 
similar efforts in Foochow and Kuangsi ; but these amounted to even 
less than the former. The place that they held the longest was 
Formosa, the headquarters of Koxinga (Mfc^)), a former Ming- 
general. All these matters belong to Manchu history and will 
be more fully treated in the following chapters. 




t 

*r 



Spread of Christianity. — As stated 
elsewhere certain firearms of the Mings were 
manufactured under the guidance of the 
Jesuit missionaries, who had reached China 
as early as the latter part of the reign of 
Wan Li. From this time forth they continued 
to live and labor among the Chinese. At the 
end of the reign of Ch'ung Cheng, they 
rxQTjTEOISEPIIIIADOj numbered among their converts in Peking 
OlRAN.ywIEPv DA 114 members of the royal family, 40 eunuchs, 



* * 


* 


M 


i* *h 


n 


& 


_2- 


& 


-r 


-Y 




% 


? 




% 


-ir 




¥ 


3" 

2L. 




I 


*- 
4Y 






^ 




;> 



CompdeIesusAplo 
doOkemce 

EsTeB^KAOSELETO 

tounoAnkode 
1633 



and 14 high officials. Among the last was 
Hsii Kuang-ch'i (l&3fc|£), one of the forty- 
seven prime ministers, who owed their ap- 
pointments to Ch'ung Cheng. To foreigners 



he was perhaps better known as Paul Hsii, for 
Epitaph of st. Francis xavier, this was his Christian name. The missionaries 

an early Jesuit Missionary ^^ ^ engaged j n translating book'S, aild by 

the year 1636 they had published no fewer than three hundred and 
fort}- treatises ; some were religious, but the larger number were on 
natural philosophy and mathematics. The translation of Euclid into 
Chinese is commonly believed to be the work of Hsii Kuang-ch'i. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



26^ 



WLitfe 



As a matter of fact, the Jesuit mission- 
aries owed their success partly to their 
scientific knowledge, and partly to their 
shrewdness. Unlike the missionaries of the 
present day, they made no attempt to inter- 
fere with Chinese customs, such as ancestor 
worship, idol worship, etc. In this respect 
they encountered less hostility from the 
educated class than missionaries of later 
periods. 

The troubles attending the fall of the 
Ming Dynast}' had a serious effect upon 
Christian work in China; but it revived 
under their successors, the early Manchu 
rulers. The names that figure most 
prominently in Chinese annals are Matteo 
Ricci (f'J 31 SI) and Joannes Adam Schaal 

In this connection, it is interesting to 
note that among the presents that the 
missionaries brought to China at this early 
period were an organ and a clock which 

were regarded as wonders by the Chinese court. They were 
probably the first of their kind that found their way into the 
imperial palace in Peking. 




HsC Kuang-ch'i 





Matteo Ricci 



Joannes Adam Schaal 



266 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 




Ming Tomb, Nanking 



T-.ei 





~ 








! 'Ts*$!> t s <> n - K h a ti 

, t | 1\ It' h ^ .'a — 









7"***$ 



\;,;;^. /v ' ■ ■"■*■■-■:■■■■•■' 

fesr 1 — a. * ^T 






-Uk«» 



>' 



--■ -w? <T 



Ufa, ,"> '<U*/ ? - * a °h 










csss 




€ I II IS I I1FII.1 

DURING THE 

CHING DINASTY 



Chinese Li 



250 o 50< 

English Miles 






•uny^:,u,/\ 








/AN L ■ '* 

LOSM ... 



~l5Hg"Eaj 



H^l 



iiAN 



s outhphinaT^b A 



(NAN 



HAI 



^yj PHILIPPINE; 
ISLANDS I 



Long East 110 of Greenwich 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 267 



Skction II. — The Ch'ing Dynasty 
CHAPTER XXXI 

GENERAL INTRODUCTION 

The events that have taken place in China since the close of 
the XVI century must be regarded in the light of Modern Chinese 
History. They in fact form the most important and interesting- 
part of China's Hstory as a whole, and are largely the record of 
a people once held in abject submission by the Mongols and 
Chinese. These conquerors suddenly rose, threw off the veil of 
obscurity, attained to the height of their power, declined, and 
now promise to be lost among the masses of China. At the 
outset they knew nothing better than a tribal organization ; but in 
these palmiest days, they ruled the largest empire, but one, known 
to Chinese history. The whole of China trembled at their feet, 
and many other Asiatic nations hastened to do them homage. 
Then followed a period of decline in their power, during which 
the forces of the East and the West were brought face to face in 
China. With the material development of the country, there 
came the intellectual awakening of the people. And to-day the 
very people, who constituted the aristocracy of yesterday, are but 
one of the many racial elements of the land. These are the 
Manchus. 

Origin of the Term.— The term " Manchus " is of Tibetan, 
or vSanskrit, origin. The Tibetans were among the first to acknowl- 
edge the supremacy of the Manchus. In their correspondence 
with the early princes of the Manchus, the Tibetans were wont 
to call them "Manjusiri Tahuangti." If we may accept the 
definition as given by a Chinese work, known as Fan-i-ming-i 
($& M £ H), or Sanskrit Terminology Explained, Manjusiri signi- 
fies Miao-chi-hsiang (£j>^j$), the most favored and lucky. The 
phrase employed by the Tibetans is, therefore, equivalent to "His 
Most Favored and Lucky Majesty." In time Manju, an abbreviation 



268 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of Manjusiri^ was adopted for the name of the people whom the 
Manjusiri Tahuangti ruled. 

Home of the Manchus. — Manjn was first rendered in 
Chinese as ^ # (Man Clin), meaning a "Full Pearl." When it 
became necessary to give the land of Manju a Chinese name, the 
second character was changed from 3$< to M (Chow), meaning a 
"continent," as the latter was certainly more consonant with the 
idea the name was intended to convey. Before long the earlier 
term was fogotten and Man Chow has come down to mean the 
people as well as their country. The Manchuria of the early days 
was a vast country of 450,000 square miles, extending from the 
Great Khingan Mountains to the sea and including the basin of 
the Amur. Much of this territory has since been ceded to 
Russia ; some passing into her hands in 1689, and more in 1859-60. 
At present Manchuria comprises only the three Eastern Provinces 
of Fengtieu, Kirin, and Heilungkiang. The country consisted 
originally of a number of petty principalities, taking their names 
from the neighboring rivers, or mountains, in which the country 
abounds. As will be told elsewhere, these numerous principalities 
were conquered one by one and welded into one kingdom during 
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Meanwhile we shall 
give a brief sketch of the earlier people, who inhabited this vast 
country at different periods, although some references to them 
have already been made in the earlier volume. 

Early Inhabitants of Manchuria— About the time civihza- 
tion began to take root in the Huang Ho Valley, Manchuria was 
peopled by a kindred race of the Hiengun, known as Tung Hit (The 
Eastern Huns) . The Chinese annals state that in the 25th year of the 
reign of the Emperor Shun (-fr^O, a certain nation, called Su-shen 
(IS If), sent a friendly mission to China and presented the Chinese 
emperor with some bows and arrows, which, for centuries after- 
ward, were regarded as the best models. It seems that even at a 
remote period the inhabitants of Manchuria were skilled in the use 
and manufacture of bows and arrows, and they themselves considered 
their workmanship good enough to be presented to the Son of 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 269 

Heaven. How long it was before they learned to make better 
weapons than their brethren in the Huang Ho Basin, we cannot 
say. When the early Chon emperors had their throne in what is 
now Shensi province, their northern neighbors once more sent bows 
and arrows and other tribute to the Chinese Court. Their country, 
as was then described, was bounded on the north by the Amur, on 
the east by the japan Sea, and on the south by the Chang-pai 
Mountains. In other words, the land of the Su-shen embraced the 
modern provinces of Kirin and Heilungkiang and that pan of 
Russian territory bordering on the Japan Sea, of which Vladivostok 
is the chief port. 

During the Later Han Dynast)', the exchange of missions 
between China and Manchuria was frequent. In writing of these 
missions, the Chinese historians used a new term, I Lou (J&H), 
interchangeably with the other name of Su-shen. For example, 
they say southwest of the I Lou territory, that is the country 
north of the present city of K'aiyiian (03 JK), belonged to the 
Fu-yii (Htfc), while to the southeast the land of the Wo-chu 
(& fB.) was subdivided between the Northern, Southern and Eastern 
Tribes. Wo-chu, it seems, is the corruption for a Manchu word 
meaning "forests." 

Seven Kingdoms of Mo-ho. — During the next two or three 
centuries, when China was divided between the Toba Tartars 
in the North and the Chinese in the South with the Yangtze 
for their dividing line, Manchuria shared a similar fate. In place 
of the old kingdom of Su-shen there sprang up seven independent 
states. The land of the tribes living on the banks of the Sungari 
River was known as Su-mo (MM), after the old name of that 
river. On the north, Su-mo was bounded by Pai-to (fMSB), which 
was in turn bounded on the northeast by Ankchuku (3? W~ # nR). To 
the east of Ankchuku, there were two more states known as Funiap 
(#6 i§ pR) and Hao-shih (fd 3? £K). The two remaining states occupied 
the valley of the Amur and the country at the foot of the Chang-pai 
Shan; hence thev became known in Chinese annals as Hei-shui 



270 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

(&*) and Pai-shan (Q ill). All these tribes were collectively 
spoken of in the north as Wu-chi (£r §), and in the south as Mo-ho 

mm). 

The Kingdom of Pohai.— About 690 A.D., the Sungari 
tribes had an ambitious man named Tachuyin (%M$k) for their chief- 
tain, and under him the state of Su-mo expanded in every direction. 
In 713, the Emperor of China, for political reasons, conferred on 
Tachuyin the title of King of Pohai {ffli m %& 3E). Thus in the stead 
of the old state of Su-mo, the kingdom of Pohai came into 
existence. Through subsequent conquests made by the immediate 
successors of the first king of Pohai, the limits of the kingdom were 
extended to the sea on the east, to Hsin-lo (fr H), or Corea, on the 
south, to the land of the Khitans (the eastern part of what is now 
Inner Mongolia) on the west, and to the Amur on the north. 
The kingdom was organized much after the pattern of the T'ang 
empire, with its central capital at the city of Hokhan (fit?), near 
the present site of Ninguta (^-£ig). Besides this, Pohai had 
four other capitals, known as the Northern, Southern, Eastern and 
Western, 15 prefectures, and 62 chow or independent depart- 
ments. By the time Apochi (H ifc $|) became the Emperor of the 
Khitan tribes, Pohai had reached the end of her national career. In 
926 A.D., the Khitan soldiers entered Hokhan, and carried the 
surviving members of the ruling family, numbering no less than a 
thousand men and women, to Yenking, now known as Peking. 

The Nu-chens. — On the fall of Pohai, the Hei-shui tribes 
secured their independence and regained most of their original land 
in the Lower Amur region. As they remained outside of the Khitan 
influences they became known as uncivilized Nu-chens, and their 
brethren in the Sungari valley, the vassals of the Khitans, the 
civilized Nu-chens (£&#&). Some Chinese historians think that 
the term, Nil-chin, is a corruption of the ancient name of Su-shen. 
In course of time the uncivilized Nu-chens produced an able leader in 
the person of one Wukunai (%#&). Wukunai came from the Wanfu 
tribe which had its home in the basin of the Aluhchuha (M%%L$&) river. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 271 

and so he bore the name of Wanyen (% H). In 1038, the Emperor 
of the Liaos appointed Wukunai Viceroy of the uncivilized 
Nu-chens. After his death the office that had been specially created 
became hereditary until Akuda, one of his descendants,, appeared 
upon the scene. How Akuda founded the Aisin Koroh (^.WM1m), 
or Chin Kuo (-& lii) , how the Chins stepped into the shoes of the 
Khitans, and how they were finally driven out of China by the joint 
forces of the Mongols and the Chinese, has all been told in connection 
with the history of the Sung Dynasty. Between the fall of the 
Aisin Koroh and the rise of the Manchus, there w r as a period of four 
hundred years. During the first part of this period, the remnants of 
the Nu-chens submitted to the Mongol yoke. When the Mings 
succeeded the Mongols in China, their authority never extended 
beyond a line formed by the cities of K'aiyuan (If^JiO, T'ieh-ling 
($11^), Liaoyang (*g |%), Shenyang (W Pi), Haich'en 0&$), and Kai- 
chow VMM). All the vast territory beyond this line, therefore, formed 
the cradle of the Manchu Nation. As the Chins had built an empire 
upon the ruins of the Pohai kingdom, so the Manchus in time 
founded one upon the ruins of the Nu-chens. 

Division of Periods. — We have now arrived at the beginning 
of the history of the Manchus. For convenient treatment their 
history may be divided into three periods: — 

1. The Period of Up-Building. — During this time the petty 
principalities in Manchuria were amalgamated into one kingdom and 
the Manchus were firmly established upon the Dragon Throne in 
Peking. These events will carry us to the close of the seventeenth 
century. 

2. The Period of Aggrandizement. — After the Manchus had 
taken possession of the Ming Empire and the Islands of Formosa 
and the Pescadores, there followed a period of aggrandizement. 
During this period the Manchu sway was extended into Sungaria, 
Tibet, and the Indo-China Peninsula. At the same time the empire 
reached its height of prosperity. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



3. The Period of Decline. — After the death of Ch'ien Lung, 
the Manchu Empire entered upon her decline. His successors were 
all men of inferior ability who could neither govern wisely nor act 
with firmness. After a long train of civil wars and foreign 
aggressions, the house of Nurhachu was actually threatened with 
extinction. Then the imperial power fell into the hands of a 
woman who did much to alienate the love of the Chinese. With 
the coming of the foreigners from the West there also came a new 
light which taught the Chinese the necessity of union in order to 
free themselves from their oppressive yoke. Before the rolling 
tide of national indignation the Manchu power was at last over- 
thrown. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



27£ 



FIRST PKRIOD : — THE KRA OF DKVHI.OPMKNT 

CHAPTER XXXII 
THE UNIFICATION OF MANCHURIA 

Early Legends of the Manchus — Before the Nti-chens 

were finally expelled from China, a certain Pnkuli Y unsung Aisin 

Ghiorroh Oft? J$. m m HI S ff % H) had founded at Omuhui (||5 fl M) 

to the southeast of the Chang-pai Shan (^ & \h), a settlement, or 

village, to which he gave the name 

of Otoli (f|5 £ J|). The early life of 

Pukuli is shrouded in obscurity, and 

legends have been busy in supplying 

what history does not afford. One 

legend has it that a maiden one day 

met an angel who gave her a red 

fruit and bade her eat it. She did as 

she was told, and in due course of 

time a child was born to her. To 

that child she gave the name of Aisin 

Ghiorroh. Three of Aisin Ghiorroh's< 

neighbors were bent upon mutual 

destruction and were in quest of a 

leader. One day they saw a man on 

the bank of a river, and were much 

moved by his physique. That man 

was Aisin Ghiorroh himself. He 

told them that he was the child that 

had been born of a maiden, and they 

agreed to forget their feud and to make him their King, or Bere (&!&).* 

As each of the these men was himself the chief of a small tribe, they 

had no trouble in building a new city for Aisin Ghiorroh and finding 

him a wife. The city they built was called Otoli and w^as situated 

on the bank of a river about 300 It southeast of Ninguta. Such is 

the legend that tells how Otoli was founded. 




This picture depicts the legendary 
origin of the Manchu Imperial Family. 

The legend says that while three 
fairies were bathing in a lake in 
Chang-pai Shan, a red fruit fell from 
a tree. One of the fairies ate the fruit, 
conceived, and gave birth to the found- 
er of the Imperial Family. 



*Manchu word, signifying chieftain. 



271 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



The rule of the house of Aisin Ghiorroh, however, was not des- 
tined to last long. The descendants of Pukuli were so weak that 
the people rose against them and had every one of the house 
butchered save one Fancha (?& ^), who, like the Kaidu (MU) of the 




The Retinue of the First Tartar King 

Mongolian legend, escaped into a wilderness. One of Fancha's 
descendants was Chaotsu (Hjjfi), the ancestor of the Manchus. 
Always bent upon revenge, Chaotsu one day enticed some forty of 
the old enemies of his house to a mountain* and caused half of them 
to be slain, and the remaining half to become his slaves. With these 



The Hulanhata, n? g8 lift 3§. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



'275 



new followers he settled at Hartu Ula,(» B M tt), now better known 
b . its Chinese name, Hsing Ching (««>. Hsingtsu (»»), the 
Jeat-grandson of Chaotsu, became in course of tune the ruler of 
Hartu Ula, and in turn was succeeded by his fourth son Chingtsu 
<*■) Chinetsu had five brothers, each of whom had a walled 




U_w ani arr.ws us.d by the Second Tartar King 



village or city of his own, situated within a radius of twenty A of 
Hsin* Ching. It was not, however, until Nurhachu, the T aitsu (* 
il) of the late dynasty, appeared upon the scene, that the foundat.on 

of the future empire was firmly established. 



276 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



As a matter of fact, very little is known of the early Manchns 
before Nurhachu, the second Jenghis Khan (j& a >® Jf). All we may 
accept as an unquestionable fact is that the Manchus belong to the 
same family that had given to the world the Wanyen Xii-chens 
(ZcMicHi). For this, we have the authority of Emperor Ch'ien 
Lung ($£ Pf) (1736-1795). In an Imperial Decree dated the forty- 
second year of his reign, he says : — " The fact that 'A ism' which 
forms part of our surname signifies in Manchu, 'gold', or 'golden', 
indicates that we belong to the same family as the Chin Yuan (^ *g). 
Our ancestors were the subjects of the Wanyens in the days of the 
Chin empire and now their descendants are our subjects." The 
emperor further informs us that the first name by which the land 
of "Our Ancestors" was denoted, was Chu-shen (sgfe $), which, in 
his opinion, was (he corruption of the ancient name, Su-shen. 

General Condition in Chu-shen or Manchuria. — With the 
rise of T'aitsu, we are on much safer ground, so far as historical 
facts are concerned. The date of his birth is generally given as the 
38th year of the reign of the Emperor Chia Ching (H iff) of the 
Ming Dynasty, or A.D. 1559. Before we tell of the exploits of 
T'aitsu, let us study for a moment the following table, giving the 
the distribution of the scattered tribes of the old Nli-chen nation at 
that time. 

Divisions and Distribution of Tribes 



Divisions 



Names 



Locality 



mm 

Manchu 

(5 Tribes) 



Sukusufu Ko M3L$ 
Hun Ho M M 
Wanyen ?Z M 
Tungyo m °3 
Chechen *g U 



Chang-pai Shan ) Noyin m Wt 
( 3 Tribes) JChusiri & # M 
l Yaluh igg Ik 



Kienchow ^^ei M 'M §f * 
(East of Shenyang ?$ It 
land Liaovang. ^ [§ 



* Wei signifies "garrison." All similar geographical names, such as Weihai 
Wei, etc., dale from the Ming dynasty. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Divisions Names Locality 



jfc i& S m Sf A fir 

Tunghai orWuchj j Warha 2C W «£) Yajen Wei 
(2 Tribes ) I Kurha m W «* 1 

fYehha n £& | *& ft ff 

Hulun M f& I Hata Pfr *i Haisi Wei^ also 

("4 Tribes ) 1 Huifa *$ f| j known as Nan Kuan 

[Wula .% & J and Pei Kuan 3b M 

All these tribes were no longer nomadic but dwelt in cities, lived 
by hunting;, and waged incessant wars among themselves. The four 
tribes, comprising the Hulun division, were by far the strongest of 
them all, and allied themselves with the Mings, forming outposts 
beyond the Chinese frontier. Their relationship to the Mings 
accounted for their conduct towards their southern neighbors, the 
* Manchus, and finally led the latter to declare war against the Mings. 

Murder of Chingtsu and Hsientsu. — About 1583, Nikan 
Weilan (M*K^M), Chief of Tulun (■ ft) (Sukusufu Ho Tribe), 
some 560 li southwest of the present city of Kirin (^ W), 
showed signs of activity. He began to casta longing eye on the 
neighboring city of Kulu ("£*»#), as it was then called, a city of 
strategic importance. Negotiations between him and the Earl of 
Ningyuan (H? M) led the Mings to send him help, and the allies 
promptly laid siege to the city. Now the wife of the chief of the 
besieged city was a cousin of T'aitsu. Hearing that his grand 
daughter was in danger, Chingtsu, T'aitsu's grandfather, and her 
uncle, Hsientsu (MM.), Nurhachu's father, hastened to the rescue 
of Kulu. The city stood a long siege. At last Nikan Weilan 
resorted to a strategem and succeeded in taking the whole garrison, 
who were murdered in cold blood together with Chingtsu and 
Hsientsu. When the news reached Nurhachu, then scarcely 
twenty-five years of age, he was wild with rage. When demanding 
an explanation from the Mings of the part they had taken in the 
tragedy, the Chinese officials disavowed the act and returned the 
remains of Chingtsu and Hsientsu. In order to further atone for 



278 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

the misdeed on the part of their border officers, the Mings sent 
Nnrhachu some thirty horses and other presents, together with a 
commission making him Tutu CU H) (military governor) of 
Kienchow Wei. This commission did not amount to much, for the 
Mings, as has been stated, never exercised actual control over the 
place. 

Unification of the Five Tribes.— Satisfied that the Mings 
would not ccme to the aid of Nikan Weilan, Nurhachu led a small 
company cf men to attack Tulun. The city was abandoned at 
his approach. Nor was Chiapan (M #1) (110 li east of the present 
Ch'engte Hsien (7£t!®&)) to which Nikan Weilan had fled, in any 
better position to withstand the attacks of Nnrhachu who followed 
upon the heels of his fleeing enemy. Nikan fled to the city of 
Fushun (MM), a frontier city of the Mings, where he hoped 
the Chinese would give him a place of refuge. Finding that he 
could not rely upon the Chinese for protection, Nikan turned and 
fled to Oelkun (f|5 WiW), near what is now Tsitsihar (5^^ift1g) f 
and p oceeded to fortify the city as strongly as the means at his 
command permitted. 

The read to this city, it should be remarked, lay through 
territories of the Tungyo, Hun Ho, Chechen and Sukusufu tribes, 
none of whom favored the cause of Nurhachu. The latter was, 
therefore, obliged to punish these, before he could hope to reach 
Oelkun. This task occupied him two years, but in 1586 Nikan 
Weilan was once more forced to flee. Again he sought the 
hospitality of the Mings. This time he was received with apparent 
good-will, but only to be surrendered on demand to Nurhachu. 
In 1587 Nurhachu slew the Bere of the Chechen tribe in battle, 
and in the following year subdued the Wanyen, the last of the 
Manchu tribes to acknowledge his sway. With the whole of the 
Manchu realm consolidated, Nurhachu was in a position to carry 
on a vigorous campaign in the Haisi territory. 

The War with the Allies. — Of the four tribes cf Haisi 
Wei, the Yehha was the most powerful. Bere Nalinpulu UF3$fc;fo 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 279 

$$) of the Yehha, who had played the part of a leader, tried in 
1589 to interfere with Nurhacliu and to prevent his annexing 
the Yalu, one of the tribes of the Chang-pai Shan division. He 
demanded that Nnrhachn should surrender part of the land to 
him ; and on his refusal he collected a large army of 30,000 men 
and led them, in 1593, against Hsing Ching. Nine tribes* took 
part in this bold attempt; but it was a motley crowd, and no 
match for the well-disciplined soldiers of Nurhachn. On the 
summit of Tsahashan (tlffr ill), to the northwest of Hsing Ching, 
Nurhacliu took up his position. Leaving the main body of his 
troops behind earthworks, he, at the head of only 100 men, fell 
upon the advance guard of the enemy, killed the younger Bere 
of Yehha, and routed a Mongol command under Bere Mingan (flj] 
£*) of the Korchin (fci* flt ?fr) tribe. The rest of the enemy simply 
melted away. Some four thousand of the allies were left dead on 
the field, while among the prisoners taken was one Puchientai (M 
£ %k), younger brother of the Wula Bere. The immediate result 
of this battle was that the two remaining tribes of the Chang-pai 
Shan division flecked to Nurhachu's standard. The year 1597 
saw the belligerents at peace again; Nurhacliu accepted the hand 
of the daughter of the younger Bere of the Yehha, whom he had 
slain in battle. Nalinpulu, the elder Bere, promised another 
princess to Nurhachu's second son, Bere Taishan (fi &). 

Conquest of Haisi Wei. — The peace thus patched up did 
not last long. When threatened by an invasion from the Yehha, 
the Bere of the Hata appealed to the Mings for help but without 
avail. He then turned to Nurhacliu, who responded by sending 
a detachment of his best soldiers. Before these soldiers had time 
to arrive, however, Mengepulu (aSifettMi), the Hata Bere, 
suddenly changed his mind and made peace with the Yehha. 
His bad faith cost him his principality in 1601, when he himself 
became a prisoner in the hands of Nurhachu. The Mings 
naturally did not like to see their Nankuan, or Southern Pass, 



*The Nine tribes included four of Haisi Wei, two of Chang-pai Shan and 
three Mongol tribes, Korchin (jft f# $&), Shibe ($g ffi), and Kualtsa (if* $j &). 



280 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

fall into the hands of Nurhachu, and they protested. Nurhachu, 
being then too weak to ignore the demand of the great neighbor, 
restored the Hata principality to Mengepulu's son. But the 
Hata could never protect themselves against the aggressions of 
the Yehha; and, as the Mings would neither send them military 
aid or supplies, the people soon applied to Nurhachu for annexa- 
tion. This was soon followed by the absorption of the Huifa in 
1607 and the Wula in 1613, leaving only the Yehha, the Pei Kuan 
of the Mings, to dispute Nurhachu' s authority. Nurhachu knew 
that so long as his enemy had a rich ally to furnish both men and 
arms, so long would Manchuria remain divided. He therefore 
declared war against the Mings in 1618, and was soon obliged to 
defend his own country against the overwhelming hordes of the 
enemy. It was not till 1619 that he was able to renew his efforts 
to subdue the Yehha. Left to themselves the Yehha soon 
.succumbed ; and in the fall of 1619 their last two strongholds 
were captured.* The campaign in the Haisi district was the most 
important of all, because the events that have been related led 
directly to the rupture between the Manchus and the Mings. In a 
certain sense, the conflict in this region afforded a training school 
for the Manchus, preparing them for a bloodier and more far- 
reaching struggle ahead of them. 

Other Conquests in Manchuria.— While Nurhachu was 
busy with his plan for invading the Haisi district, he did not 
forget the land of the two tribes, — that vast country lying to the east 
of Xinguta. One of these tribes was the Warha whose home was 
in the Upper Usuri (»% M M) valley, with settlements scattered along 
the coast and as far south as the Hsien Ching district (J&&ai) of 
Corea. Northwest of their land was the home of the Hurha tribe, 
whose settlements dotted all that part of the country watered by the 
Hurha river (MW&ffi)- The first attempt to annex this territory was 
made in 1598, when under the command of Bere Chuying (?£3£), 
eldest son of Nurhachu, the Manchus captured twenty stockades 



In one of them were found 1,000 Chinese soldiers who were put to death. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



281 



belonging- to the Anchtilaku Route (£ £ it W. ») of the Warha tribe. 
During the next half century the Manchu domain continued to 
grow at the expense of their eastern neighbors. Now by diplomacy, 
and now by coercion, Xurhachu and his son after him always 
Succeeded in winning more people to their standards. It was not 
mure land that the early princes of the Manchus stood in need of 
but more men, for theirs was a nation in arms. Before 1643, the 
Manchu sway had been extended not only over all the country 
between the mouths of the Amur and the Tumen,* but also over many 
islands in the sea, including Saghalien (^t&*I),l which, by virtue of 
the Treaty of Portsmouth (1905), was equally divided between 
Russia and Japan. 




Canvas representation of walled town used at drill. (Birch) 



The home of the Solun tribe (^ 1&), between the Amur 
and the Khingan Mountains, was never invaded during the 
lifetime of Xurhachu. It was not until 1635 that they opened 



* Including the Dog-using fj£ -ft and Deer-using $« {& -jj§ #R tribes. These 
terms are self-explanatory. The former employs dogs, the latter deer, to draw 
their pali or sledges. 

fOn this island are the "very hairy" men (^A), the Ainos of Japan 

( *zm A &>. 



282 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

communication with the Manchus by offering tribute. As they had 
long enjoyed the reputation of being skilful archers and horsemen, 
T'aitsung (i: ^), who had succeeded to the throne of his father, 
enlisted them in his service. Frequent mutinies caused their land to be 
invaded by the Manchus and the Mongols in 1640-41. Since then 
they have accepted their faie, although they have remained a separate 
unit of the Manchu population. With the incorporation of the 
Soluns, all kindred tribes that had arisen since the days of the Khitans 
and the Chins, had been united into one nation. 

Early Military and Political Organizations of the 
Manchus. — The Manchu army, as fir^t organized by Nurhachu, 
consisted of Four Banners, distinguished by the color of their 
respective standards, as the Yellow, the Red, the Blue and the 
White. The unit of the army was the Niulu-yachen (^^ 'M 5\), or a 
captain's command of 300 men. It took live Niulu-yachen to form 
a Chala (tp $]), and five of the latter made up a Banner. When the 
army became larger, four additional banners were added. These 
were known as the Bordered Banners because their standards of 
yellow, white, blue, and red each had borders of another color. The 
yellow, white and blue were bordered with red ; and the red, with 
white. Thus the so-called Eight Banners, the ground plan of the 
Manchu military organization, were formed. At a later date, the 
same organization was extended to the Mongols and Chinese who 
had joined their ranks. By the time the Manchus established them- 
selves in China, there were Eight Banners each of the Manchus, 
Mongols and Chinese. 

Whenever possible, the Eight Banners marched abreast of each 
other. On the battlefield, heavy infantry bearing long knives and 
spears formed the van, and these were closely followed by files of 
light armed archers on foot. As soon as the enemy showed the least 
sign of confusion before the immense shower of arrows, a regiment 
of cavalry, always held in readiness, dashed forward and completed 



OUTLINE? OF CHINESE HISTORY 



283 



the rout. Each unit also carried two so-called " cloudy-ladders " 

(il$), manned by twenty soldiers, whose duty it was to scale walls 

and ramparts. No soldier was permitted 

to leave his captain's standard, and any 

one who received a wound while away 

from his post was entitled to no reward 

or pension. 

The banner organization was also 
carried into political affairs. No laws 
for administrative purposes were known 
prior to 1587. In that year, the first 
laws against treason and robbery were 
proclaimed. The government then con- 
sisted of five Administrators, who formed 
the state council of the Manchu sovereign, 
assisted by ten lesser dignitaries known 
by their Mongolian title of Tsarkutsi 
(*l ffi m ^). All these officials were 
clothed with judicial as well as executive 
powers. Lawsuits were first heard be- 
fore the Tsarkutsis, while the Councillors 
formed a court of appeal. The final appeal was, of course, to 
the monarch; but before a case could come up before him, it had to 
be heard by the Beres who constituted a sort of intermediate 
tribunal between the sovereign and the court of the Councillors. 
These institutions were undoubtedly adequate to the needs of a 
primitive nation. 

In 1616, Nurhachu first adopted a dynastic name for his reign, 
and the term Manchu was first used for the nation. The name of 
his reign, which lasted till 1626, was T'ienming CXfo) (Will of 
God). Thus it was by "divine right" that the first emperor of the 
Manchu Dynasty began to rule. 

The Ordar of Baturu. — In the days when military titles were 
few, the order of Baturu (£.111$) (a Manchu word signifying 
"brave") was the most coveted military distinction among the 



■ 


i 












■IP-.' f 


Jb 






B '4 


. ' j 








4- 






^is 




Jfi I 




^■■v ■' 


j 




W ' 


. ' .-i 




■; 




s '$ 






*3*"""" 


/-'■* 



A soldier. (Gorst) 



284 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Manchus. This institution, dating from the war in the Haisi 
district, carried with it the privilege of wearing the peacock feather; 
and was conferred solely for active service in the field. Since the 
beginning of the nineteenth century, and more particularly since the 
Taiping Rebellion, this order has lost much of its significance. 
Whenever there was the least excuse, dozens of condidates were 
recommended to the Throne for the bestowal of the honor, although 
many of the recipients were by no means worthy of it.* Moreover 
it seldom happened during later days of the Manchu rule that the 
peacock feather, so lavishly bestowed upon the payment of a 
nominal sum of money, was not obtained previous to the bestowal 
of the Baturu. But in the early years of the late dynasty, no 
prince could obtain this reward of bravery without performing some 
brilliant feat of arms. The first recipient was the Bere Taishan 
(afterwards Prince of Li GUI)), second son of Nurhachu, who 
greatly distinguished himself in the battles of Haisi Wei. 

As regards the peacock feather, it is stated that one of the 
successful Chinese generalst in the time of K'ang Hsi, preferred this 
mark of distinction to the second order of the Chinese Nobility, 
which had been bestowed on him in recognition of his services in 
connection with the conquest of Formosa (£?§). 

The order of Baturu carried with it either a Chinese, or Manchu 
prefix (as Chiayung Baturu (HJIEIil#), or Feilinko Baturu 
•§l $! N IE I® §)), the latter being considered the more honorable. 



* Nearly all the Chinese commanders who took part in the naval battle of the 
Yalu had had the Baturu conferred on them, although the first active service they 
saw was that battle, which sent so many of them to their grave of disgrace. 
Scores of other instances may be cited to show that the order had been conferred 
on cowards rather than on " braves." / 

tThis was Marquis Silang (Jjjg 3g), a native of Fukien. He had been a 
Minister of the Inner Department (ft jz gL), which office carried with it the 
right of wearing the feather, but upon receiving an appointment outside of the 
Capital, as was then the custom, he was deprived of the distinction, which 
belonged to his former office. When he offered to resign his commission as 
Marquis for this honor, it was of course given him in addition thereto. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 285 

CHAPTER XXXIII 
THE STRUGGLE BETWEEN THE MANCHUS AND THE MINGS 

War of Liao Tung 
Relative Strength of Manchuria and China. — In point 

of area, population, and resources, the little country of Manchuria, 
the Kingdom of Nurhachu, could hardly compare with China. 
The Mings could have literally flooded that kingdom with war- 
riors at any time, and they were better armed. China Proper was 
separated from Nurhachu's country by the valley of the Liao, every 
inch of which must be conquered before the Manchus could expect 
to reach the gateway of China. The frontier towns were all strong- 
positions, and above all there was the mighty fortress of Shanhai- 
kuan. This has no military value now ; but in those early days it 
was well nigh impregnable. After twenty-eight years of incessant 
warfare the Manchus were not able to take it. Had the Mings 
taken timely measures to check the expansions of their enemies, the 
Manchu empire might never have been heard of. The whole 
struggle was a case of suicide on the part the Mings. 

To their everlasting disgrace, their government was helpless in 
the hands of the eunuchs*, before whom loyalty and bravery had 
to hide their heads. The long struggle is divided into two stages. 
The first stage was the War of Liao Tung, or the Region East of 
the Liao. 

Declaration of War : "The Seven Hates," or Grievances.— 
Notwithstanding the relative strength of the nations, Nurhachu 
was ready to declare war against his mighty neighbor. So long as 
the .Mings interfered in Mahchurian affairs,'!" he could never hope to 
make himself the ruler of a united Manchu nation. He had raised 
his army to the strength of 40,000 men and know that his troops 



♦According to Emperor K'ang Hsi, their number at that time reached the 
high water-mark of 100,000. 

|The Mings kept Yehha supplied with men and firearms. 



286 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

were equal to the best soldiers that the Ming emperor could send 
against him. But revenge always sounds better than ambition or 
policy, and Nurhachu took care to prepare a proclamation setting 
forth his grievances against the Mings. The remarkable document 
became known as the Seven Hates, which are given below. 

(1) "Though my ancestors never took a straw from, nor hurt 
an inch of earth within the Chinese boundary, the Chinese were 
unceasingly quarreling with, and without, just cause abetting my 
neighbors to the great injury of my forefathers. 

(2) "Notwithstanding such injuries, it was still my desire to 
be on friendly terms with the Chinese Emperor; and I therefore set 
up at the boundary line a stone slab on which was engraved an oath 
to the effect that whoever crossed the frontier, whether Manchu or 
Chinese, must suffer instant death, and that if any man aided the 
trespasser in escaping, he should himself suffer death instead. This 
oath was disregarded by the Chinese when soldiers came to aid Yeho. 

(3) "At Nan Kiangan and Beihai, on the Ching Ho, the 
Chinese have crossed the river every year, plundering all around, 
regardless of consequences. I carried out my oath to the letter, and 
slew as many as were seen on our side of the river. Thereupon the 
Chinese annulled the treaty between us, reproached me with murder 
and at our very border murdered my ambassador to Kuangning 
with his nine attendants. 

(4) "The Chinese crossed the frontier to aid Yeho, and thus 
compelled men and women who were our subjects to return to 
Mongol allegiance. 

(5) "For many generations we have tilled the lands along the 
Chai river and along the tripartite roads of Foongan Mountain pass. 
The Chinese soldiers came and drove away the reapers when they 
went to gather in the harvest. 

(6) "Though Yeho sinned against Heaven, you continued to 
listen to their lies and sent me a messenger with a letter, upbraiding 
me, railing at and abusing me without restraint, and causing me 
unspeakable pain. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 287 

(7) " Hada of old assisted Yeho in battling against me, who 
had only my own resources on which to rely. Heaven gave me 
Hada. You of the Ming supported his followers causing them to 
return to their own homes. But Hada was afterwards frequently 
attacked and robbed by this same Yeho. If these small kingdoms 
had obeyed the will of Heaven, they could have remained and 
prospered; but disobeying the will of Heaven they had to be broken 
and destroyed. Can you preserve those appointed to die? I took 
Hada' s men ; do you still desire to restore them ? You are a prince 
of Heaven's appointment. You are the sole Emperor of all under 
Heaven; why do you envy me the possession of my small kingdom? 
When the Hoolun kingdoms gathered against me to destroy me, 
Heaven abandoned them and aided me, because they fought against 
me without a cause. At that time you aided Yeho against me, and 
thus ran counter to the will of Heaven; you reversed my right and 
his wrong, and thus delivered an unjust judgment. 

" For all these reasons I hate you with an intense hatred, and 
now make war upon you." 

We give the text of the document in full because it gives a 
resume of the relations that had existed between the two nations 
prior to the year 1618. Instead of sending the declaration of war 
to the Ming emperor, Nurhachu caused it to be burned, so as to in- 
form Heaven and Earth of the justice of his cause. 

Battle of Fushun and Capture of Chingho. — The invading 
army numbered twenty thousand men. One detachment captured 
Tungchow (;£:J'H) and Mahatan (Hi l£ ft) ; but the main force 
consisting of the Four Banners of the Left Wing, commanded by 
Nurhachu in person, advanced on Fushun (!&jil),the farthest 
outpost of the Mings to the east of Shinyang. The Mings, un- 
prepared for the invasion, offered no resistance. The garrison 
of Fushun surrendered and the city was razed to the ground. 
When the Brigadier-General of Kuangning, Chang Ch'eng-ying 
(5S #$l), came at the head of 10,000, it was too late for him to 
save the city. In the conr.se of the battle which ensued, a heavy 



288 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

sand-storm rose and threw the Chinese into snch confusion that 
they were routed*, and their commander and several officers were 
slain. Following up his advantage Nurhachu laid siege to the city 
of Chingho (yH ffl), and rejected all overtures for peace. After 
some weeks the city was captured and its garrison and inhabitants, 
numbering no less than 20,000 men, women and children, were 
massacred by the ruthless Manchus. Having crippled the Ming 
power, the Manchus promptly returned to deal a fatal blow to the 
Yeh has. 

The Mings Take the Offensive.— The fall of Fushun and 
Chingho tended to open the eyes of the Mings to the new danger 
to which their empire was now exposed. They resolved to 
destroy the power of Nurhachu once for all by throwing four 
armies, each of 60,000 men, into Manchuria. 

The first army was to inarch into Manchuria through the Fu- 
shun Kuan diUSSB), or Pass; the second, through the Yahu 
Kuan UiHil), or Pass; while the third and the fourth, assisted 
by the Yehha and the Corean auxiliaries, were to enter by way 
of Sanchakou and Hughuangchen, respectively. The execution 
of this plan of invasion was entrusted to a man named Yang Ho, 
with the title of Field Marshal (II wfr). Thus before Nurhachu 
could complete the conquest of Yehha, he was suddenly called 
upon to defend his own territory. 

Battle of Sarhsu. — To permit the four Chinese armies to 
effect their union meant sure destruction. The Manchus must 
single out the different sections, take them, by surprise, and give 
them no time to come to the help of one another. That was the 
only way they could hope to save themselves, and no one knew 
it better than Nurhachu himself. He could bring into the field 
only 60,000 men. But these men were better trained, knew 
their country better, and realized that their national existence 
was at stake. They also knew Nurhachu, and were ready to 



:|: Eot.h Fushun and Chingho had been previously opened to barter trade with 
the Manchus. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 289 

carry out his orders. Nothing of the kind could be said of any of 
the divisions of the Mings. In each of their division there was a 
eunuch who knew nothing about war and who did everything he 
could to interfere with the free exercise of judgment on the part 
of the commander. None of the commanders seems to have 
taken measures to provide himself with the necessary means of 
communicating with his colleagues. 

The division that Nurhachu decided to engage first was the 
one under the command of General Tu Sung. This general was 
more brave than wise. Determined that none of his comrades 
should share with him the honor of annihilating the enemy, 
whom he had always looked clown upon with contempt, he 
marched more rapidly than any of them. He had no time to 
wait for boats to cross the Hun Ho, but ordered his soldiers to 
ford it. It is stated that by so doing many of his men were 
either drowned or left behind. Having gained the other bank of 
the Hun Ho, Tu Sung entrenched himself on Sarhsu (MWWt), 
a hill about 30 miles west of Hsingching. Here he further 
weakened his army by leading 20,000 of his men to lay siege to 
the town of Jiehfan, where the Manchus had fifteen thousand 
workmen laying out a new city, and a garrison of but 400 men. 
After having sent away 15,000 troops under his sons, to 
strengthen the garrison at Jiehfan, Nurhachu attacked the 
enemy's position on the Sarhsu Hill with his main force of 45 ; 000 
men. The battle began in the afternoon, and at nightfall the 
issue was still undecided, as both sides were determined to grain 
the victory or die. But in the darkness the torches of the Mings 
brought about their own destruction. Every arrow of the 
Manchus told on the enemy. The bullets that the Mings shot 
into the darkness, did but little damage. The battle of Sarhsu 
resulted in a complete victory for the Manchus. Nor was the 
detachment saved. Before Tu Sung succeeded in dislodging the 
Manchus fro n Chilingyen (ct^H), an eminence on which they 
had entrenched themselves, he was attacked by the relieving 



290 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

column with a heavy slaughter, and lost his own life. Thus 
was the first division of the Mings received and annihilated. 

Defeat of the Other Divisions. — The third division was 
next engaged. Marching northward from the Sarhsu hill, Nurhachu 
found this division on Shanchienyen C Uj 1*1 M), a short distance below 
T'iehling (ic^), where two detachments of 10,000 men each were so 
entrenched as to have their rear protected. Nurhachu first engaged 
and defeated one of these detachments, and then the main body, 
leaving its commander, Ma Lin (,f|$0, with a handful of men, to 
fall back on K'aiyuan (ffll M). The Yehha soldiers upon hearing of 
the disaster, promptly withdrew into their own borders. Meanwhile 
the fourth division had captured some roadside stockades and was 
within a short distance of Hsingching. With consummate strategy, 
Nurhachu sent a few prisoners of war with a message purporting to 
come from Tu Sung to Liu Ting (fij |g), the commander of the 4th 
division, telling him to advance without delay. As the message said 
that Tu Sung had already begun operations, Liu Ting, who was 
completely deceived, advanced into the trap laid for him. At the 
foot of the Aputali (H M 5§ M) Hill, he was met by the soldiers of 
the fourth Bere, afterwards the T'aitsung (i; ^) of the Manchus. 
In the thick of the battle, a detachment of soldiers was observed to 
arrive from the west. To all appearance they were true Chinese 
soldiers, dressed in Chinese uniforms and carrying the Chinese colors ; 
and the Mings naturally took them for their friends. It was not 
until these supposed friends were in the midst of the Chinese 
that their true character was revealed. They were Manchus, the 
picked soldiers of the Bere Taishan. The confusion among the 
Chinese was beyond description. Liu Ting and most of his officers 
and men were slain, the general that brought up the rear was put to 
flight, and the one in command of the Coreans surrendered. 

The second division of the Mings never saw the Manchus. It 
received an order to retreat and its commander, Li Ju-pai (3* jfcn ;$), 
promptly obeyed. Inside of six days, Nurhachu had thwarted the 
scheme of the Mings by defeating three, of their four divi>ions. 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 201 

Instead of being destroyed, ihe Manchus emerged from the first stage 
of the struggle stronger than ever. Giving his men little or no rest, 
Nurhachu led his victorious army to K'aiyiian and T'iehling, both of 
which were easily captured. As told in the last chapter, the annexa- 
tion of the Yehha country followed. 

Causes of the Defeat. — The Chinese had no one but themselves 
to blame for their defeat. Each of their divisions would have been 
more than a match for the Manchus, if they had been led by able 
officers. They had firearms and allies while the Manchus none. 
There was absolutely no excuse for the failure to establish means of 
communication between the different divisions both for support 
and information. Ordinary precautions and a few scouts might have 
saved every one of the divisions from destruction. The Yehhas, 
who were in every respect like the Manchus and spoke their tongue, 
were still loyal to the Mings. They might have been too demoralized 
to take the field against the Manchus. Yet there was no reason why 
they should not have been employed to advantage by the Chinese so 
as better to inform themselves concerning the nature of the country. 
The Mings were outgeneraled at every turn, and their campaign was 
badly managed from beginning to end. It was the first and last 
supreme effort of the Mings to subdue the Manchus. Huang Tao- 
chow*, in commenting upon this campaign, said: "Kienchow" (£E 
jW) is but a little country, dependent upon Fushun and Chingho for 
food supplies. The fact that the Manchus made no attempt to hold 
these cities when they fell into their hands shows that their ambition 
went no further than their own border. With all the stockades 
along the line restored to good condition and garrisoned by a strong 
force, and with a flying column to harass and prevent the Manchus 
from sowing and harvesting, whenever possible, we could have dictat- 
ed terms to the enemy. Instead of all this, we sent the flower of our 



* Grand Secretary Huang Tao-chow (J§[ it j^) who afterwards became the 
Prime Minister of Jang Wang, when the Mings made a desperate effort to hold 
Fukien Province against the conqueror. 



292 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

army .... into an unknown country; and, besides, placed in the 
hands of the enemy an immense store of much needed provisions 
and military supplies!.... Who is to blame?" It is computed 
that the total losses of the Chinese during the campaign amounted to 
310 general officers and 45,000 common soldiers. 

Hsiung Ting-pi. — The incompetent Yang Ho was, immediately 
after the disaster, superseded by General Hsiung Ting-pi (t^MW . The 
new generalissimo was a man of ability and busied himself in restoring 
the discipline of the army, in establishing a long line of defence, and 
in organizing a roving army. In spite of a severe earthquake, an 
intensely cold winter, and other difficulties, he succeeded in gathering 
an army of 180,000 men. That was about all a man could do under 
the circumstances. Yet he was accused of inaction, and told to give 
his place to a civilian and man of letters, named Yang Y'ing-t'ai. 

Capture of Shenyang and Liaoyang.— With the removal of 
General Hsiung, Nurhachu was ready to resume his aggressions on 
Chinese soil. He had marked the city of Shenyang as his next 
objective. That city was defended by deep moats and new firearms, 
recently obtained from the Portuguese, and much superior to those 
of native make hitherto used by the Mings. Nurhachu would not 
risk his men where these weapons were mounted on the wall, and 
could be employed to such advantage. By degrees he induced the 
brave commander of the garrison to leave the shelter of the strong' 
fortress and accept battle in the open. Through his own rashness, 
the Chinese general fell into an ambush and was completely defeated. 
On his return he found to his surprise that the bridges across the 
moat had been withdrawn by some Mongols and Manchu spies. 
Unable to gain the shelter of the wall, Ho Shih-hsien (M ft %) , for 
such was the general's name, and the remnant of his army all perish- 
ed by the swords of the victors who came up at their heels. Shortly 
before the war, thousands of Mongols had been driven by a severe 
famine to beg bread from the Mings. It was through the efforts of 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 293 

these Mongols., whom Ying T'ai* against the advice of his officers 
had permitted to settle in Shenyang and the surrounding country, 
that Nurhachu now came into possession of the first stronghold which 
might have kept the Manchus at bay for an indefinite time. The 
Mings sent several armies to recapture the lost city but they were 
repulsed. They, or more particularly, the Chekiang soldiers under 
Colonel T'ung Chung-kuei (it ft» 1ft), fought very desperately, and with 
the firearms recast by the Jesuit missionaries after the Portuguese 
pattern, did good execution. Finally when their powder was 
exhausted they were attacked by an overwhelming force of the 
Manchus — about three to one — and butchered. 

Liaoyang, the headquarters of the generalissimo, w r as a city of 
still greater importance; but it was defended by a general who was 
no more bagacious than the commander at Shenyang. Yang Ying- 
tai, in fact, made the same blunder by leading his men out to fight 
the Manchus in the open. Badly defeated, he shut himself up 
in the city with a disheartened garrison, until despair made 
him commit suicide. A city without its head was then easily taken. 
As Nurhachu entered the city, the people testified their submis- 
sion by burning incense in front of their houses. With the fall of 
Liaoyang, Haicheng (S$c), Kaiping (M 5 P), Chin-chow (ikM), Fu- 
chow (ft JH), numbers off smaller towns in Liaotung were either 
abandoned or surrounded, and before long the whole region of 
Liaotung was added to the kingdom of Nurhachu. 

Mukden becomes the Capital of Manchuria. Nurhachu at first 
thought of building a new city, about 5 li east of the old city, for 
his " Eastern Capital." He had actually given orders to that effect 
when he suddenly discovered the superior position of Shenyang, 



*Ying T'ai was desirous that the:e Mongols should not join the Manchus. 
But as soon as the Mongols found themselves comfortable in the midst of the 
Chinese, they took possession of their wives and daughters, and the Chinese 
authorities were too timid to enforce law and order. For this, Ying T'ai was held 
responsible, and, as a matter of fact, the inhabitants preferred the ru!e of the 
Manchus to that of their weak generalissimo. 

tSaid to be more than 70. 



294 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



which commanded the roads to Peking", Mongolia, and Corea. The 
orders for the laying out of a new city were promptly rescinded, 
and Shenyang under its Manchu name of Mukden (which has been 
translated into Chinese as Shengking), became the seat of the rising 
dynasty until the Manchus came into China. It took the Manchus 
four years to put up the necessary palaces and court buildings, and 
so Mukden was not occupied as a capital until 1625. All this time 
Nurhachu made Liaoyang the base of his operations against the 
Mines. 




■Par* 



Imperial Palace in Mukden 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 295 



CHAPTER XXXIV 

THE STRUGGLE BETWEEN THE MANCHUS AND THE MINGS 

{Continued) 

War of LiAonsr 

Return of Hsiung Ting-pi to Power. — The loss of Liaotung 

restored General Hsiung to power, though his glory was again of 
brief duration. He proposed to concentrate a strong force at 
Kuangning (M g£), and to organize two powerful fleets, one at 
Teng Chow (g ->H) and the other at Tientsin CXW). He thought 
that the land forces thus concentrated would be strong enough to 
check the further advance of the Manchus, while the fleets to be 
built up would be employed to harass the coast of Liaotung. Inas- 
much as the Manchus were not sailors, this plan, if successfully 
carried out, would at least oblige them to break up their camp in 
order to defend their own coast line. At each of the three points 
mentioned, there was to be stationed a governor subject to the 
orders of the generalissimo, who was to take up his residence 
at Shanhaikuan (Ui ?&U). Hsiung Ting-pi's proposal has come to be 
known as the " Triple Defense Plan " (3 M ft W. &). 

Insubordination of Wang Hua-chen; Fall of Kuang- 
ning. — Wang Hua-chen {3L1IM.), the governor of Kuangning, 
however, did not like the policy of his generalissimo. Although a 
subordinate officer he was a favorite of the powerful eunuchs at 
Peking. He informed his friends that with 60,000 men he could 
destroy the Manchu power once for all; and tried to give himself all 
the credit for the re-capture of a small and unimportant town east of 
the present city Feng Huang Ch'eng (EGM), by Major Mao Wen- 
lung (2&3C ft). Major Mao had, on the fall of Liaotung, escaped into 
Pitao {&, %), an island in the Gulf of Liaotung, now known under 
its modern name of Haiyangtao (M ft Jb), and had led frequent 
raids into places along the coast. When the news of the re-capture 
reached Peking, the friends of the governor ridiculed the scheme 
of the generalissimo as evidence of incomnetencv and cowardice. 



296 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Hua-chen remained master of the whole situation and could do what 
he pleased, whether the generalissimo would or not. It was he, and 
not General Hsiung, who was in command of the larger army. 

The insubordination of Hua-chen soon turned out to be a very 
expensive matter for the Chinese. Nurhachu, taking advantage of the 
dissension among the Chinese commanders, crossed the Liao in 1622 ; 
and after a brief siege took the town of Si Ping Pao about three 
miles west of the river. Wang Hua-chen then sent his lieutenant, 
Sun Te-kung (M ft #;), with the major portion of his army to 
recapture the town. The sight of the Manchus at Pingyangch'iao 
(¥ PI ft) was sufficient to put Sun Te-kung into such a flight 
that he did not stop until he was safe within the city of Kuangning. 
His example was of course followed by all his men. Instead of 
punishing him, Hua-chen was deceived by his representations, with 
the result that Kuangning was actually abandoned to its fate two 
days before the arrival of the Manchus. General Hsiung found the 
governor of Kuangning on the bank of Talingho (zJc'^IM). Not 
only had he failed to destroy the Manchu power, but had also lost 
his city, army and every thing he had, save two slaves who had 
followed him on foot all the way from the deserted city of 
Kuangning. As the generalissimo had but 5,000 men, there was but 
one thing he could do, and that was to fall back upon Shanhaikuan. 
Not wishing to leave the military stores for the benefit of his enemy, 
he set fire to them before he retreated with Hua-chen behind the 
Great Wall. For this disaster, Hua-chen and his friends in Peking- 
alone were responsible. Nevertheless, the eunuchs finding them- 
selves powerless to save the life of their protege took revenge upon 
General Hsiung and caused him to be executed several months before 
the real culprit. Patriotism had to hide its head before eunuchs or 
suffer itself to be led to the scaffold. 

The City of Ningyuan. — The tide of Manchu conquest having 
rolled across the Liao River, the question with the Mings now was 
whether they should abandon all territory beyond Shanhaikuan, or 
fortify the city of Ningyuan (^ai). One of the strong advocates 
of the latter plan was Yiian Ch'ung-huan i&B'&), then a district 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 297 

magistrate. As General Wang IVai-chin, the immediate successor 
of Ting-pi, did not favor his plan, the question was finally referred 
to Peking., when Grand Secretary (X & -±) Sun Ch'eng-tsung 
(S Ifrvfi) was sent out from Peking to make an investigation, which 
resulted in the adoption of Yuan's plan. In time Sun himself 
became the successor of Wang Ts'ai-chin, and under him and Yuan 
Ch'ung-huan the work of fortifying Ningyuan was prosecuted with 
vigor. The city walls were strengthened, European cannon were 
mounted and a respectable army of 100,000 was raised. A line of 
outer defence was also erected, and 5,000 7now of land w r ere brought 
under cultivation as a military fief (4Lffl) for the support of the 
soldiers, in addition to large quantities of military stores accumulated 
in Chio Hua Tao {% ^ &), an island on the coast of Liaotung. The 
Manchus made no efforts to interfere, partly because they were 
engaged with the laying out of palaces and other buildings in Mukden, 
and partly because Mao Wen-lung was giving them trouble on the 
Yalu. This lull in the war was employed by the Chinese to restore 
the confidence of the army and to part of the territory of Liaohsi. 

The Battle of Ningyuan. — Like his predecessor, General 
Hsiung. Sun Ch'eng-tsung was not a favorite of the eunuchs. He 
was* made to resign in 1625, and his removal once more gave 
Xurhachu an opportunity to bring his warriors across the Liao. To 
his great dismay, the stronghold of Ningyuan stood in his way, Yuan 
Ch'ung-huan would neither evacuate it to please his new generalissimo, 
Kao Ti (iHH), nor come out of it to accept battle. The European 
guns were especially to be feared, for they simply swept away the 
Manchus. As many times as the brave soldiers had the courage to 
come within their range they were repulsed. Their "cloudy ladders" 
were useless in face of the murderous fire, and every attempt to 
breach the wall was a failure. 



*After the death of Yuan Ch'ung-huan, Sun was restored to his command 
but was again dismissed at the instance of the eunuchs. Kao Ti thought it more 
expedient to concentrate his forces at Shanhaikuan. Every staticn beyond Shan- 
hoikuan, with the exception of Ningyuan, was therefore abandcned. 



298 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

After three days of tremendous sacrifice of life, Nurhachu 
hesitated to renew the assault. Never before had he acknowledged 
defeat. It was both the first and last time in his life that he did so. 

Death of Nurhachu. — For days Nurhachu was unhappy. He 
fell sick at Mukden and died in September 1626, only a couple of 
months after his return from Ningyiian. He died when he was 
sixty-eight years old and left his throne to the 4th Bere, who has 
come to be known as T'aitsung. At twenty-five, Nurhachu's 
principality was not larger than a good-sized village of the present 
day; but before his death he had welded all the different sections of 
his people into one powerful nation. To him the Manchus owed 
their greatness. To his generalship, which easily entitles him a 
place among the great military leaders of the world, he added the 
wisdom of a first-class statesman. John Ross says of him, 
" Revenge made him a soldier, abilities a general, the stupidity of 
his opponents a conqueror, and wisdom a ruler and founder of a 
dynasty." * 

Boulger, another foreign writer of Chinese history, pays a no 
less complimentary tribute to him. He says : " In many respects he 
accomplished for the Manchus what Jenghis did for the Mongols. 
It was not his fault if his sphere was a smaller one and more 
circumscribed. The credit of having emancipated himself from it 
may, indeed, f have been all the more conspicuous ; and it certainly 
seems that Nurhachu achieved a great exploit when he extended his 
sway from a small valley of a few square miles over a vast territory, 
including two Chinese, or quasi-Chinese, provinces, and stretching 
from the Great Wall to the Amur. If much of his extraordinary 
success must be attributed to the blunder and folly of his opponents, 
cannot almost the same be said of every conqueror from the days of 



* John Ross' " The Manchus." 

t Indeed, he abhorred the idea of ruling China. His ancestors, the Nii-chens, 
had been ruined simply because of their residence in China, and he was resolved 
that the mistake should not be repeated. For this, we have the authority of 
T'aitsung which has often been quoted by subsequent emperors to warn their 
people against adopting" the effeminating customs of the Clrncsc. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 299 

Alexander to those of Napoleon? Nurhachu had the strength of will, 
seldom given to mortals, to know when to stop. His victories are 
not more remarkable than the vigor with which he consolidated his 
authority in the new possessions that fell into his power. He built up 
the edifice oi his empire step by step, and his successors had to thank 
him that he sank its foundations very deep in the affections of his 
own people, and in the possession of a well-trained and valiant army.'' 

Peace Negotiations. — Ch'ung-huan's success in rolling back 
the wave of invasion at Ningyiian made him a national hero. 
The Peking government thought so much of him that they 
abolished for a time the effice of generalissimo in order to leave 
him supreme in command, and at the same time raised him to the 
rank of a governor. Ch'ung-huan wished to restore the fortifica- 
tions at Chinchow (£$ Wi) to the north, and those of the 
surrounding country. It was to his interest that the Manchus 
should not attack him for sometime. To this end, he secured the 
services cf a lama and sent a message of condolence from 
Ningyiian to Mukden. The message w T as received with apparent 
goodwill. The truth was that the new ruler of the Manchus 
was contemplating an invasion of Corea, and did not want his 
enemy to harass his country in his absence. Consequently the 
friendly mission sent by Ch'ung-huan marked the opening of 
peace negotiations. But neither side was sincere in desiring 
peace; both sought to gain time. 

The terms demanded by the Manchus were as follows : — 

1. That the Mings should pay them 100,000 teals of 
gold, 1,000,000 teals of silver, 1,000,000 pieces of satin, and 
10,000,000 pieces of cloth, as the price of peace; and continue to 
send gold, silver, satin and cloth at the end of each year there- 
after, for which they would agree to send, in return, furs, pearls, 
and ginseng. 

2. That all territory east of the L,iao should remain Manchu. 
while that west of Shanhaikuan should continue Chinese, and in 
the neutral territory of Ljaohsi between them, no city was to be 
fortified by the Chinese. 



3 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

3. That in all official correspondence, " Neither should the 
Ming Emperor be raised to the same height as Heaven, nor his 
Ministers of State, to the same honor as the Manchn emperor." 

In other words, instead of demanding terms of equality in 
official correspondence, the Manchns only wished to secure terms 
of less glaring uneqnality. 

The conditions named by the Mings were certainly no less 
exacting. They included the return of all land and prisoners of 
war that the Manchus had taken, and a promise to keep out of 
Corea and Corean affairs. Under the circumstances, no under- 
standing was possible; but much valuable time was thus gained, 
and finally both governments once more declared themselves 
ready for war. 

Renewal of Hostilities.— By the middle of 1627, the war 
cloud again burst. The Manchus had returned victors from 
Corea, and the Mings had completed their defense at Chinchow. 
An army of Manchus, intoxicated with their recent success in 
Corea, made their appearance before Chinchow only to be 
repulsed. Chinchow, indeed, was as impregnable as Ningyuan, 
and the very first attack T'aitsung made on the Mings proved a 
complete failure. 

Advance upon Peking; Removal of Yuan Ch'ung-huan — 

So long as Yuan Ch'ung-huan remained in L,iaohsi, the Manchus 
were unable to secure permanent foothold on the west side of the 
Liao. He had to be removed before T'aitsung could hope to realize 
his plan. Once he was removed, but on the death of Wei Chung- 
hsien, the all-powerful eunuch, he was reinstated. Avoiding 
the scenes of his last defeat, T'aitsung, in 1629, led an army 
through the territory of the Korchin (& Wjb) Mongols who had 
long been his allies. Having made a breach through the Great 
Wall at Hsifengkou CM ^ PI), the Manchus invaded China and 
captured the city of Tsunhua (INb). From this point they 
marched due west, met with little or no resistance, and, coming 
down from 'Shunyi (M^), encamped before the Tesheng 
(Northern) Gate (#. B P^) of Peking. The capital of the Mings 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 301 

was in danger. As the news travelled far and wide, reinforcements 
poured into Peking from different parts of the empire. By a 
forced march Yuan Clr'ung-huan, now Field Marshal in Eiaohsi, 
also brought up an army before the Kuangch'u (Eastern) Gate 
(.£ !i PI). Without any apparent reason, T'aitsnng retired with 
his men to Nanyiian (j%"£&), the Imperial Hunting Park. Among 
the Manchn prisoners of war there were two eunuchs. Within 
their hearing T'aitsung caused it be said that his retreat had been 
made in pursuance of a secret agreement with Yuan, which 
would eventually put the Manchus in possession of the Imperial 
City. These eunuchs being allowed to escape the next day, went 
directly into the palace and informed the Emperor Ch'ung Chen 
(^ i£) of what they had overheard. The Emperor believed every 
word of the story, and without any ceremony he deprived Yuan 
Ch'ung-huan of his command and put him in prison, from which 
he never emerged except to lose his head by the executioner's 
axe. 

Meanwhile a company of Manchus had penetrated as far 
south as Ku An (EI 5£c) and Liang Hsiaug (K8&). Upon their 
return they routed one body of Chinese soldiers at Imkouch'iao 
(S #!$!), and another before the Yung Ting (Southern) Gate 
(4c S PI) of Peking. Instead of storming the city, however, they 
turned in the direction of Tungchow (M'JH) and looted the 
principal towns between that city and Shanhaikuan. Pursued by 
an overwhelming force, they dared not remain long on Chinese 
soil, but retreated through Lengk'oukuan (#• n M) into Mongolia 
and thence into Manchuria. 

For a long time afterwards many reasons were advanced by 
Chinese historians to account for the withdrawal of the Manchus 
from before the Yung Ting Gate. The explanation, as given by 
Emperor Ch'ieu Lung, was very simple. As Shanhaikuan was 
still in the hands of the Mings, the Manchus were too far away 
from their base. Besides, the road between their home and 
Peking was at the mercy of hostile neighbors, the Chaliar,* who 



*The Chahar Mongol?, 



302 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

were Mongols in the service of the Mings. Under these 
circumstances j a slight reverse might mean utter destruction, and 
no wise general would risk his chances before such a stronsr citv. 
Apart from the removal of General Yuan, and the plunder they 
carried home, the bold advance on Peking brought the Manchns 
no material advantage. The small garrisons they left behind 
them at several points of strategic importance were one by one 
ousted by overwhelming odds. 

Murder of General Mao Wen-lung (1629). — Before the 
arrival of the Manchns at Peking, the Mings had lost an able 
officer in the murder of General Mao Wen-lung. * He was 
murdered by agents of Yiian Ch'uug-huan almost immediately 
upon the latter's resumption of pow 7 er. The explanation he gave 
to Peking for his strange conduct was that General Mao was not 
loyal to the cause of the Mings, an accusation that was not borne 
out by the facts, This cruelty on the part of Yiian Ch'ung-huan, 
it is stated, had the effect cf poisoning the mind of his emperor 
against him, and constituted one of the reasons why he was later 
thrown into prison without an investigation. As we shall 
presently see the murder of Mao Wen-lung wrought no small 
consequence to the Ming cause. 

Fall of Port Arthur and the Islands along the Coast of 
Liaotung (1633-1637).— The disaster that General Yuan had 
brought upon himself through his own cruelty, was nothing 
compared with what his country had to suffer afterwards. Upon 
the death of Mao Wen -lung, two of his sub-lieutenants, Keng 
Chung-ming and K'ung Yu-te, deserted and went over to 
the Manchns. In 1633 they led the Manchus to capture Port 
Arthur. Upon its fall, Shang K'o-hsi, another lieutenant of 
Mao and commander of Kuanglutao (Ji^lO, capitulated. The 



*Towards the close of 1629 Yiian was removed by Wei Chung-hsien (f$ & 
H£), the all-powerful eunuch. Upon the accession of Ch'ung Cherig in the fol- 
lowing year, Wei was sentenced to death and Yiian appointed Generalissimo at 
Shanhaikuan. General Mao called to pay his respects to the Generalissimo and 
on a given signal was seized and executed. 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 303 



capture of Pitao, the last of the islands that had so long resisted 
the efforts of the Manchus since the taking of L,iaotung, then 
followed. All these men became the most faithful servants of 
the Manchus, who, in consideration of their services, made them 
their princes when they came into China.* 

The Battle of Chang ShaiM 1631).— This battle is interest- 
ing ill that the Manchus for the first time in their history employed 
firearms against the Mings; It was from the Chinese prisoners 
of war that they had learned how to make cannon. The battle 
was brought about by T'aitsung's making a fresh attempt to 
capture Chinchow (IfijHO. This was no more successful than 
his first effort, although the Manchus succeeded this time in 
destroying the Chinese post at Talingho. 

Chihli and Shantung Provinces Ravaged by the Man- 
chus. — After the battle of Chang Shan, the Manchus changed 
their tactics, and in the years 1632-1635, completely broke 
the power of the Chahar Mongols, The Chinese frontier 
along the Great Wall was now exposed to attack. In spite 
of the wall the Manchus could descend upon China from 
the north, and in 1635 they broke through that barrier at 
different points and effected a junction at Yenching (5£ M Ml). 
After a series of encounters with the Chinese soldiers, they 
pillaged as many as 12 cities, and their divisions met in T'ung- 
chow (M Ml). From this point, one division went to Ichow (^ M'l) 
(Ichow Prefecture JIMI/fr), another to Ansu (3c H), and still 
another to Hsiung Hsien (4& $$) (both in the Pao Ting Prefecture 
(ifcSJfr)). The next year saw the Manchus in Shantung. At 
Tsinan ($f $f), the capital of the province, a prince of the House 
of Ming fell into their hands, and was carried a prisoner into 
Manchuria. All these expeditions were more or less in the 
nature of pillaging parties, who were murdering and kidnapping 
people and carrying away their live stock. The Manchus moved 
from place to place with great rapidity, always attacking the 



::: It is commonly believed that without their help, the Manchus could never 
have broucht the whole of China under their swav. 



304 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

weakest point en route. The first expedition took 180,000 
prisoners and great numbers of live stock into Manchuria. The 
second expedition returned by way of Tientsin, and the soldiers 
were so loaded with loot that it took them several days to get 
their long train of carts across the Grand Canal near that place. 
Had the Ming commander in the vicinity shown any of the 
qualities of a general, they could not have reached home with all 
their booty. As late as 1642-3, the Manchus came again through 
the Great Wall and ravaged all the country around Yenchow (32 
-M'l) in Shantung. 

Effect of the Pillaging Parties. — As to immediate results, 
the expeditions into the heart of China must be regarded as 
failures. The Manchus did not gain an inch of territory by 
these movements ; but their expeditions brought about far-reach- 
ing consequences, — something of which they had not dreamed. 
For it was Li Tzu-ch'eng (^ i j^) who conquered the Ming 
empire and laid it at the feet of Emperor Shun Chili Oil yft), but it 
was these expeditions that had made the success of the rebel pos- 
sible. Owing to the frequent depredations of the Manchus, the 
best soldiers of the Mings were gathered in and around Peking, 
thus leaving Shensi, Shansi and Honan Provinces at the mercy of 
Li Tzu-ch'eng. At that time there were stationed between Peking 
and Shanhaikuan four viceroys, six governors and eight brigadier- 
generals, besides the numerous eunuch commanders. * Party 
intrigues and personal jealousies divided them and they never 
could offer a united front against the invader. It was clearly a 
case where too many cooks spoiled the broth. 

Fall of Chinchow. — While the Manchu Berest were mak- 
ing profitable expeditions into Chihli and Shantung provinces, 
T'aitsung did not give the people of Chinchow 7 any rest. If he 



* The 4 Viceroys were at Kuan Wai (|fj ^f), Kuan Nei (|f} fa), Chang Ping 
(m 2 ?), and I >ao Ting (i£}d?). The 6 govenors were at Xing Yuan (^M). Yung- 
Ping (& T-), Shun T'ien (J® 5*c), Mill Ytin ($?'©), Tientsin CXW)> and Pao 
Ting. The 8 Brigadier-Generals were at Pao Ting, Tientsin, Shanhaikuan, Chung 
Hsieh (tp $,), Hsi Hsieh ($ $,), Mou Ping (f 2p), and Tungchow. 

f All the Pillaging expeditions were commanded by Beres. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 30o 

could not carry the city by storm, he could starve its inhabitants 
into submission. The siege continued for years, even until 
cannibalism reigned within the city. It fell in 1641, when 
General Hung Ch'eng-ch'ou (^ t£ "#),* its commander, was taken 
prisoner. On him were showered all marks of honor. Overcome 
by kindness, Hung swore allegiance to his conqueror, took up 
arms against his mother country and afterwards proved a great 
help to the Manchus. 

Arrogance of Confucian Scholars. — Towards the last days 
of his reign, T'aitsung was not at all unfavorably inclined to 
peace. In fact, he attempted several times to open negotiations, 
and was even willing to surrender his title of Emperor for that of 
khan, if the Mings would only follow the example of their 
predecessors, the Sungs, by purchasing peace. The Ming Em- 
peror, too, was no less ready for peace; but the Confucian 
scholars of the empire would have none of it. The Manchus 
lived outside the Great Wall and to these scholars every one 
beyond that dividing line was a "barbarian." They would 
never make peace with a barbarian. As everyone that was able 
to read and write had the privilege under the laws of the Ming- 
Dynasty to address his emperor direct, Ch'ung Cheng was virtu- 
ally overwhelmed with warlike counsels. Owing to the popular 
clamor, a governor of Ta Tung (;*: fsj) was imprisoned because 
he had the audacity to forward the peace proposal of the Manchus 
to Peking ; and Ch'en Hsin-chia ($1 ir *P), President of the Board 
of War, had to be dismissed, although it was under instructions 
from his emperor that he conducted negotiations with the 
Manchus. T'aitsung alone realized that so long as Shanhaikuan 
and Xingyuan were not in his hands, it was fruitless for him to 
try to conquer China. The Chinese held these places up to the 
time of his death (Fall. 1643). With his death the war of 
Liaohsi was closed. 



* The Manchu Beres were greatly displeased that their sovereign showed so 
much consideration to a prisoner of war. " But he is more than a prisoner of war," 
declared T'aitsung, ''he is the pathfinder and pilot that vvill take us safely into 
the Chinese Empire." Hung proved quite worthy of this high opinion. 



800 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER XXXV 

THE CONaUEST OF COREA AND INNER MONGOLIA ; THE 
EARLY CUSTOMS OF THE MANCHUS 

1. Conquest of Corea 

Early Relations between Corea and Manchuria. — The 
Coreau peninsula, " measuring roughly 600 miles from north to 
south and 150 miles from east to west,"* is separated from 
Manchuria by the Yalu River. The Coreans have never been 
able to take care of themselves. When the Manchu nation to 
the north came into being, Corea was a vassal state of the Ming 
emperor. To him, the Coreans had every reason to be grateful, 
for it was the Chinese that had, toward the close of the 16th 
century, rescued them from the clutches of Japan. The Coreans 
had no personal grievances against their northern neighbors, but 
they treated them as enemies because they were the foes of the 
Ming emperor, whose orders they must obey. In 1619 they sent 
20,000 men to help the Chinese in Manchuria, where three- 
fourths of them lost their lives in battle, and the surviving 5,000 
surrendered. This event was sufficient to convince the Mauchu 
ruler that Corea was quite a thorn in his side. He had either to 
win the southern neighbor as his ally, or to deprive her of the 
means of aggression. As the former plan was certainly less 
expensive, it was adopted. The Coreau prisoners were accord- 
ingly sent home with a letter to their king, with a view to interest- 
ing him in the Mauchu cause. The Coreau King not only treated 
the communication with contempt but also meddled again in 
Manchurian affairs by sending aid to the Warha (X ffi n&) tribe in 
their hopeless attempt to resist the tide of Manchu expansion. If 
Nurhachu's hands had not been so full, he would have punished so 
meddlesome a neighbor himself rather than leave the task to his 
son. 



*"Thc Far East.' 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 307 

Peace of F'ingshan (1627). — The accession of T'aitsung 

witnessed a temporary hill in the war of I^iaohsi. Valuable in- 
formation as to the state of affairs in Corea having been received 
from certain political refugees who had come into Manchuria 
to seek shelter, T'aitsnng threw an army across the Yaln in 
1627. Near Yichow (^ '>H), they encountered a handful of 
Chinese soldiers belonging to the command of General Mao Wen- 
lung (%3til), who had come to the aid of the Coreans. They 
made the soldiers embark on their ships and sail away. The 
Coreans, left to their fate, could offer but a feeble resistance. 
City after city fell, and even Seoul, the capital, was in danger. 
The king was among the first to desert his city, taking his family 
with him to the Island of Kiang Hua (ft. '$£&). For want of a 
fleet the Manehus could not follow him ; and, as their services were 
required elsewhere, a treaty of peace was signed at F'ingshan 
(^ ]li) . They had, however, plundered the country to their 
hearts' content and gladly carried their spoils home. The treaty 
placed the two contracting parties on an equal footing as 
tl Brother," or sister states OL %, £ HI). 

Events leading to the Second Invasion. —After the peace 
of P'ingshan, the Manehus were engaged in a campaign against the 
Mings and their allies, the Chahar Mongols. During all this 
time, the Coreans remained faithful to the tottering house of the 
Mings. "The Ming emperor," declared their^king, "is my 
father. Is it right for me to assist in any hostile preparations 
against him ? " This epistle was sent in reply to a request of the 
Manchu ruler that he equip a fleet for their use. But upon the fall 
of Port Arthur, the Manehus had a fleet of their own, which they 
requested the Coreans to supply with provisions. This they also 
refused to do. There were frequent communications passing 
between the Manehus and the Coreans, but their relations were 
anything but cordial. By 1646, T'aitsnng had broken the 
power of the Chahar Mongols and assumed, for the first time, the 
imperial title. Instead of sending congratulations, the Corean 
king protested, for he thought that the only person entitled to the 
imperial title was the Ming emperor. 



808 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Second Invasion. — The storm that had so long been gather- 
ing soon broke. In less than a year, Northern Ccrea again 
experienced the horrors of an invasion. In spite of the fact that 
the frontier cities had been strengthened since the previous war, 
the Manchus were victorious wherever they went. Their army 
numbered 200,000 strong; and, at its head, marched the newly- 
crowned emperor of the Ch'ing Dynasty. A message was 
promptly despatched to inform the " father" of the danger; but, 
owing to the fact that an alarming rebellion was threatening the 
very existence of the Ming empire, there was no succor in that 
quarter. The L,intsin (K°» W) River to the north of the capital was 
at length reached by the Manchus, and their horses simply 
trotted across the frozen stream. Following his old plan the 
king sent his family to the Kiang Hua Tao and retreated with his 
court to Nanhaushan (iff 8! ill ), south of the Han Kiang (Hit), 
whither he was followed by the Manchus and besieged. Two 
sorties were made but to no avail. From different parts of the 
peninsula three armies came to his relief, but only to suffer 
defeat. To increase the sorrow of the king, word soon came 
informing him that his wives and children had fallen into the 
hands of the Manchus. The situation was hopeless. The king 
capitulated, and willingly enrolled himself as a vassal of the 
Manchu Emperor. From that moment, Corea remained a vassal 
state of the Ch'ing Dynasty until the close of the Chino-Japanese 
War (1895). 

2. Conquest of Inner Mongolia 

Outlines of Mongolian History during the 16th Cen- 
tury. — During the supremacy of the Ming Dynasty, the Mongols 
had been successfully driven beyond the Desert of Gobi, but be- 
fore long they crept southward again. The Mongols north of the 
Desert, known as the Mopei Mongols (\& 4b M *£) or Khalkhas 
(ngftf n&), were practically unknown in the annals of the Ming 
Dynasty. Their cousins in the south were known by the 
general term of Mcnan Mongols (^f^ ^"£), and were a constant 



OUTLINES OV CHINESE HISTORY 399 

menace to the Mings. They made frequent raids on the border, 
until the weak descendants of Hung Wu found it cheaper to buy 
immunity from them and enlist them as guardians of the Chinese 
marches, hence their name Chahar, the Mongol term for the 
guardian of a city. 

Of the Monan Mongols, the Korchin (^ flf ifr) tribe occupied 
the extreme eastern part of what is now Inner Mongolia, and 
their country "measured 870// from east to west and 2,100 // 
from north to south." On account of their geographical position, 
they were the first to come into contact with the Manchus. The 
land to the southwest bordering upon the present Chihli and 
Shansi provinces belonged to a number of tribes, of which the 
Chahar (^ Pfr $f) were the most powerful. 

Origin of the Korchins. — After their final expulsion from 
China, the Mongols split themselves into two sections, the 
Eastern and Western, or the Tatar (H Q) and the Oirad (%M). 
During the first decade of the 15th century, Altai (N^^n),^ 
descendant of Hasar (nfr H ffi) , a younger brother of the great 
Jenghis Khan, rose to a position of influence among the Tatars. 
In course of time, his descendants emigrated to the valley of the 
Nen River ($i $1) and there grew into the Korchin tribe. As 
they multiplied in number, they were organized into other tribes, 
known as the Djalaid (*l^4#), Turbet (*fc W ffi ft) and Ghoros 
'IP flfH WO ; these four composing the Cherim League (ff.fcfc.ffl) of 
the Inner Mongols at the present clay. 

The Korchins form Alliance with the Manchus. — Owing 
to their proximity to Manchuria, the Korchins viewed the rising 
power of Nurhachu with alarm and joined the Yehha (H W$) tribe 
in an attempt to destroy Hsing Ching. The result has been 
related elsewhere. When Nurhachu later led his men against the 
Wula tribe, the Korchins again crossed the frontier but only to 
be driven back. This convinced their chief that it was best for 
them to live in peace with the Manchus and to give up all hopes 
of checking their progress. Since then the Korchins have fought 



810 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

many battles for the Mauchus, and have given many an empress- 
mother to the Mancliu Dynasty. Their dzassaks (tl^ %) to-day 
rank foremost among all the Mongol dignitaries. 

Origin of the Monan Mongols. — The division of the Mongol 
nation into the two general divisions of Mopei and Monan dates 
from the time of Dayen Khan (iSff) (1470-1543), a remote 
descendant of Shun Ti (jill#), the last emperor of the Mong'Ol 
Dynasty. Having united all the sections growing out of the 
weakness of his predecessors under the Hara Holin (n& »Jfl ^fu $c) 
throne, he followed the example of his great ancestor, Jenghis 
Khan, and divided the country south of the desert among his 
several sons. From the descendants of his first son, Batulu 
(E l@ @), we have the Chahar m nfr #), Khaochid (ffi ft 4#), Sunid 
(M M #), Uchumuchin (,%^Sft», Aokhan (fflcM) , and Naiman 
(%£ §k) tribes; from those of Barsu (E M M), his second son, the 
Ordos (fBM^Uf), and Turned (±SK4$) tribes; from those of 
Orchu (Nil), his third son, the Djarud (tL^^), and Barin 
(E *k> tribes ; and from those of Orchi & ffi ft) , his fourth son, 
the Keshikteng (3E ft j£ JJi) tribe. 

As already stated, the Chahar tribe was the leading tribe of 
Monan. The opening sentence of a letter, which Lintan Khan 
($fc ^ffO of the Chahars addressed to Nurhachu in 1619. shows 
the relative strength of the two rulers at that date. Lintan 
styled himself "Jenghis Khan {ffi ti JB ff), Batulu (E W @), King 
of the Mongols, and Commander of the Nation of 400,000 
strong" (tiivRB] h ffi 2&) ; and referred to Nurhachu simply as 
"Commander of a nation of 30,000 people on the coast" 
(?h it H $h ^ ^ M lij ±). It is no wonder that the weak emperor of 
the Ming Dynasty should grant an enormous amount of subsidy 
to this "Commander of 400,000 strong" to harass the Manchus 
" on the coast.'" 

The War with the Chahar Tribe.— By the time T'aitsung 
succeeded to the throne, the Manchus were not simply a tribe of 
30,000 people. Moreover, several of the weaker Mongol tribes, 
such as the Aokhan, Naiman, Djarud, and Harachin (a tribe 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 311 

claiming descent from one Chilama (?f tft$§), a Minister of State, 
under Jenghis Khan), had sought the help of the Mancliu king 
against the oppressions of L,intan Khan. By a series of battles, 
the Manchus taught Lintan the folly of espousing the cause of 
the Ming emperor, although T'aitsung was not yet ready to take 
the offensive. At last in the year 1332, T'aitsung marched 
1,300 li beyond the Lesser Khingan Mountains (ft #*35S), and 
found his enemy .utterly unprepared for an invasion. Iyintan 
fled with his followers and live stock across the Northern Bend of 
the Yellow River, and died two years later in the vicinity of 
Kokonor (# S). His son, Orche (gg|f), having surrendered the 
remnant of the Chahar tribe in the following year, the whole 
country of Monan was brought under the Manchu power, for the 
other tribes gladly accepted the authority of the new master. 
Owing to a subsequent rebellion in the reign of the Emperor 
K'ang Hsi, the Chahar tribe was distributed along the borders of 
Chihli and Shausi under the name of Y r u Mu OJMic), or Nomad 
Herdsmen. Unlike their cousins, who were ruled directly by 
their own khans called Dzassaks, they were placed under the 
government of the Manchu Tutungs (M #6) (Generals) . The 
Chahars as an organization, therefore, have disappeared from the 
list of Mongol tribes of Inner Mongolia. 

T'aitsung Changes the Name under which He Reigns 
and also that of His Dynasty. — When Orche surrendered, he 
also gave up the imperial seal of China which had been in the 
possession of his family. The event was considered such a good 
omen that T'aitsung in the following year changed the name 
under which he reigned from T'aitsung (& ^) to Ch'ung Tc 
(£ltt), and ordered that " Tach'ing " (* yf) , should be adopted 
instead of Manchu (S&i/H), as the name of his dynasty. He felt 
confident that as the seal of the Chinese Empire had come into 
his hands, so would the empire itself, although he should not live 
to see it. 



312 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Early Customs of the Manchus 



Civil Government. — During the early reign of T'aitsuug 
(Jk *£), the need of civil government was keenly felt. No better 
model was known then than the organization of the Ming 
Empire, and in the year 1631 (the fifth year of T'aitsuug) the Six 
Boards were established on the Chinese plan. They were the 
Boards of Civil Appointments, of Revenue, of Ceremonies, of 
War, of Punishments, and of Works. Each board was presided 
over by a Bere, assisted by Secretaries OMO, Assistant Secretaries 
(#j#r), and interpreters (IfifrHIS); all the subordinate positions 
being open alike to Manchus, Mongols, and Chinese. Since all 
state documents were written in Mancliu, the interpreter, or 
Ch'ihsinlang (^ *fr g|5), was a necessity, and this office was con- 
tinued for a time after the Manchus came into China. 

The Ceusorate ($> %& fi£), which was organized in 1636, formed 
the Seventh Department, and the Eifauyiian Ui If $0, or Mongol 
Superin tendency, followed two years later. The latter was 
charged with the control of the various tribes of Mongolia subject 
to the Manchu authority. 

In place of the Hanlin Yuan, there was one department 
charged with the duty of compiling histories; another, with the 
duty of carrying on the sovereigns' correspondence ; and still 
another, with the duty of giving the king useful lessons in Chinese. 
They were known as the Kuoshihyuan (1$ *£.£%), the Piwenyviau 
(ffi%. $:), and the Hungwenyuan (%3C K), respectively. 

The Written Language of the Manchus. — The Man- 
chus were not a literary people. They not only had no native 
literature, but were also obliged to employ the Mongol language 
as the medium of correspondence. Towards the close of the reign 
of Nurhachu, there came into use a new system by which they 
were able to write their own tongue. Gradually they discarded 
the Mongol language ; but to the present day still retain its 
syllabic alphabet. There are six or eight vowels and ten marks 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



313 



used in rendering Chinese syllables 



Modern Manchu, like 
is written in vertical 





J.» ;*L a {* * if - 
a. $$ r|. *£ *b & % 
% r> a. fi- j* rj a. 

**• fc <. Jt $ >i -<£> 


m mil 



Manchurian, Chinese and Mongolian 
systems of writing 



in Manchu 

Chinese, 
lines. 

During the reign of T'aitsung 
several Chinese historical, philo- 
sophical and metaphysical works 
were translated into Manchu. 
"The Stories of the Three 
Kingdoms"'' (H lil iit 31) became 
at once their favorite. T'aitsung 
spared no effort to foster in his 
people the acquisition of a literary 
taste, and sent every sou in his 
family between the aires of eight 
and fifteen to school. On more 
than one occasion, he publicly 
commended the courage of the 
Chinese who remained at their posts of duty in the face of hunger 
and death ; and he rightly concluded that it was education that 
helped to make faithful soldiers. Under him public education 
made a fair start, for he knew, "An empire, conquered on 
horseback, cannot be governed on horseback." Who can ever 
question his wisdom and statesmanship ? 

Religion. — As the Manchus borrowed their alphabet from 
the Mongols, so they borrowed their religious belief from the 
Chinese. Their gods, however, are few and it is their custom 
to group them together with the tablets of their ancestors in one 
room, called the " T'ang Tzu 5) CM^f). It is stated that upon 
the conclusion of the first treaty with the Mings, they applied to 
the latter for a god before whom they could make oath, and were 
given the god of Earth, or T'uti (± 3&), that stands at the end of 
the long list of Chinese deities. It is significant that the 
characters for T'uti also mean " country " in Chinese, and that in 
the signing of this very first treaty the virtual giving away of 
their empire was foreshadowed. 



14 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Besides the T'uti, the chief deities of the Manchu T'angTzu 
are Kuanti (IH#), the Chinese god of War, Julai (#n 2fc) , and 
Knanyin (M If) . Among the lesser ones are the god of Chang Pai 
Shan (M. & Ui W) , and the Wanli Mama (% ja M M). Some think 
that the last-named god is the wife of the Emperor Wanli (^§ J*g). 
of the Ming Dynasty ; but there is no satisfactory explanation of 
why the Manchns should worship her, although it is claimed that 
it was largely due to her influence that the remains of Ching Tsa 
and Hsien Tsn were returned. 

The sacrificial ceremony consists of offerings, music, and 
dancing; and is performed with the assistance of a priestly person, 
often a woman, who acts as the director of the rite and interpreter 
of augurs. Being a martial people, they thought that nothing- 
would please their gods more than a show of their martial spirit, 
hence the custom of dancing T'iao Shen (BljjhJO, in which it was not 
unusual for the persons engaged to appear in armour. 




Instruments for sacrifices, kept in the Imperial Palace, Mukden 



Slavery. — If the whole Manchu nation was an army, that 
army was based upon slavery. The relation between the sovereign 
and his people was the relation between a commander and his troops, 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 315 

or between a master and his slaves. Excepting the sovereign, every 
one was a Xuts'ai (slave) (&;**), both in theory and practice. 
After the Manchus came into China all Chinese military officers 
wore also required to refer to themselves as nuts'ai in all com- 
munications addressed lo the throne. The Emperor was the 
commander of the Three Upper Banners (± H $£),* while the Beres 
were the commanders of the rest. A nuts'ai of a Bere might become 
a high official under the throne ; but remained the property of his 
master. Once a slave a man was a slave all his life, and all his sons 
inherited the status of the father. 

The institution of slavery was the natural consequence when 
the weak came into contact with the strong. It was built upon 
might and the weak were naturally its victims. The wave of 
Manchu conquest carried this blight all over Manchuria. Mongolia, 
and part of China. Conquest gave birth to slavery ; and slavery, 
in turn, encouraged further conquests. The possession of slaves 
enabled the early Manchus to develop fully their fighting character. 

Position of Woman. — The Manchus did not imprison their 
women as the Chinese do. Indeed, their seclusion was not in- 
troduced until a comparatively late date, and was due entirely to 
policy.!' Even down to the present the position of the Manchu 
daughter is one to be desired. She has social and legal rights of 
her own. She takes precedence in her own family over even her 
mother ; and no father can make a disposition of his property 
without the consent of his eldest daughter. If she remains un- 
married, triumphant arches are erected in her honor ; and, instead 
of being looked down upon as an object of commiseration, she is 
always looked up to by the members of her household. The inter- 
marriage of the Manchus and the Mongols dates from the early 
times ; but up to a few years ago there was a law against the 



*The Yellow, White and Bordered Yellow Banners. 

f This formed the subject of an Imperial Decree issued by the Emperor 
Shun Chih at the instance of a Manchu censor. 



316 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



marriage of Manchus with Chinese. This was a wise provision, for 
women with small feet were not suitable wives for men who were io 
conquer an empire. The Manchu woman has never bound her feet. 

Polygamy, in the form of concubinage, was known among the 
early Manchus, as is common among their descendants of the present 
dav. 




Manchmian ladies 



Dress, etc. — The Manchus are more athletic than the Chinese, 
fond of exercise, archery, riding, and hunting. They do not look 
down upon a military career as the Chinese do. From their tight 
belts they suspend a profusion of ornaments, such as lotus pouches 
Vffi'M), (so named because they are made to resemble the lotus leaf), 
chopsticks, knives, etc. Their forefathers were accustomed to carry 
food in these pouches when they went out hunting. The shaving 
of the front part of the head and the wearing of the queue, is, of 
course., a characteristic institution of the Manchus. 

The gowns of the women hang from their shoulders, and are 
worn long and loose so as never to show the line of the waist, or 
the outline of the figure. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 317 

CHAPTER XXXVI 

THE CONQUEST OF CHINA PROPER 

Accession of Shun Chih. — At his death, T'aitsung left his 
throne to his nine-year-old son, afterwards known by the title 
under which he reigned as Shun Chih OK fft). If Nurhachu had 
been the father of the Manchu nation, T'aitsuiig had been its 
defender. Corea was now a vassal state; Inner Mongolia had 
cast her lot with the Manchus; Chinchow, the first stronghold 
in Liaohsi, was no longer Chinese. The rejoicings over the 
accession of the new emperor had hardly ceased in Mukden, when 
a catastrophe visited the House of Chu Yuan-chang. A eunuch 
opened the gate of Peking to Li Tzu-ch'eng and amidst the 
consequent chaos and lawlessness, the Ming Dynasty fell. 
Ch'ung Cheng, the last representative of the dynasty, simply 
reaped as his predecessors had sown, for the seed of tyranny, of 
eunuch-rule, of official corruption, had begun to bear fruit. It 
only remained for the young emperor in Mukden to be borne into 
Peking and there proclaimed the father of the Manchu Empire. 

Alliance with Wu San-kuei. — Though the house had already 
collapsed, the gate was still standing. Shanhaikuan was still in 
the hands of General Wu San-kuei ($k H W.) in 1644. He had 
been summoned to bring his forces with all haste to Peking; but 
it was too late. At Lanchow CM JH) a messenger met him, and 
informed him of the state of affairs in the capital. His emperor 
was dead ! His father was in the hands of the rebel ! Yet, all 
this would have been borne in silence, if Yuanyiian (SI U), 
the girl he loved, had been safe. She had been siezed by Li Tzu- 
ch'eng and given to one of his generals. This was enough for 
General Wu in whose breast patriotism was now dead ; but the fire 
of jealousy was burning with great fierceness. If he could have 
forgiven Li Tzu-ch'eng for stealing the Ta Ming (^c $A) Empire, 
he would not and could not forgive him for taking this girl. 



318 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



A letter was promptly dispatched to prince Dorgun (£ jff&), the 
Manchu Regent (ffij&iE), imploring him to come to his aid in 
punishing the robber. To accept this proposal meant that the 
Mauchus, as a friend of General Wu, could now march unopposed 
through Shanhaikuan into China— that impregnable Shanhaikuan, 
that had defied their best efforts for twenty-five years. The 
regent gladly consented to give his assistance. General Wu little 
thought that in making this compact he was sealing the fate of 
the Chinese Empire. 

The Battle of Shanhaikuan. — The arrangement was effected 
none. too soon. At the head of 200,000 soldiers, Li Tzu-ch'eng 
was pressing forward towards Shanhaikuan, into which Wu Sau- 
kuei had fled; and a detachment of 20,000 strong had also 
been sent by a circuitous route to occupy the road between that 
pass and Liaotung. The Prince Regent found that he could 
proceed no farther than the Shaho (v^M) without encoun- 
tering the rebels. "Now that the whole rebel force is in 
the field," counselled Hung Ch'eng-ch'ou (& jfc m|), who was now 




Shanha'kran 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



319 



with the Manchu army, "we should march directly upon Peking 
by way of Mongolia and sieze that city before Li Tzii-ch'eng can 
have time to return." This would leave General Wu alone to 
face the tremendous hosts, and he, of course, objected to such a 
plan. With the aid of the Manchus, he drove out the rebel force 
of 20,000 and visited the Regent in his own camp on the Shaho. 
There he could not do otherwise than agree to the terms dictated. 
He submitted himself to a barber and had his head shaved and his 
hair twisted into a queue., after the Manchu fashion. The Regent 
promised to give up the thought of attacking Peking, but still 
refused to march into Shanhaikuan. He had every reason to be 
cautious. An enemy that had ended the Ming empire at a blow 
and that was superior in numbers to the combined forces 
now massed against him, was by no means to be despised. 
Accordingly Wu San-kuei was told to stitch a white cloth on 
the shoulders of his soldiers, and begin the battle. 

The fearful struggle took place on May 26th, 1644, at 
Shanhaikuan. In spite of a severe sandstorm which was blowing 
sand and gravel in the face of the combatants, the conflict 




continued for hours, 
bravely, but the enemy outnumbered them ten to one. At 
length the order to make a charge was given by the Regent, who 
had been watching the contest from an eminence, and the two 



Big gun in fortifications at vShanhaikuan. 
("China and Her People," II) 



The men under General 



Wu fought 



320 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

wings under Prince Yu G& IS EE) and Prince Ying (2£!^5E) 
galloped into the scene of action with three loud cheers. The 
sun had now passed the meridian. The storm ceased and the sky 
became clear once more. The mere sight of a foe of whom so 
much had been heard, but nothing had been seen, was enough to 
cause a feeling of awe. Li Tzu-ch'eng was the first to turn his 
horse and flee. The battle was decisive, and the retreat of the 
rebels was turned into a great rout and fearful slaughter. Before 
nightfall, the Manchus were in Shanhaikuan. A proclamation 
was issued calling upon the inhabitants to shave their heads as a 
sign of submission. This having been complied with, Wu 
San-kuei, now a Manchu prince with the title of Pinghsi C 2 ? ® D, 
was sent to pursue the rebels. The latter made a pause at Yung 
Ping (xR 2 !*), from which place Li sent a message to San-kuei 
desiring peace; but his peace proposals were rejected, and he 
continued his flight into Peking. 

Coronation of Li Tzu-ch'eng. — Since he knew it was the 
objective point of the Manchus, the Rebel dared not stay long in 
Peking. His thoughts were now of Shensi (fife M), his native 
province. Sian (M 3c) .- the capital of this province, had been the 
capital of China in the past, and the approach to it from the east 
lay through the pass of Tungkuan (StiS), which could be easily 
defended. From Sian he hoped still to rule over a portion of 
China, even if he had to leave the Manchus in quiet possession of 
Peking and the country east of it. But Peking, the capital of the 
empire that he had just overthrown, should witness his coronation 
as Emperor of China. The preparations to crown him Emperor 
were, therefore, hastened; and the day after the ceremony, he set 
out on his westward or homeward journey. He did not leave Peking. 
however, until he had stripped the imperial palaces of everything of 
value and had set fire to them. Nor would he permit Wu Hsiang 
(& H) to join his son, but the aged father of Wu San-kuei, as well 
as every other member of his household, except Yiianyiian, was put 
to the sword. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 321 

Arrival of the Prince Regent at Peking.— On June 5, 1644, 
the Prince Regent reached Peking". He look possession of the 
capital of China in the name of his nephew, to whom word had been 
sent to come forward and occupy the vacant throne, gave out orders 
to have the remains of Ch'ung Cheng and his empress interred in an 
appropriate manner, and set apart three days for national mourning. 
The latter measures were taken with a view of gaining the good 
will of the literary portion of the populace. All the cities north and 
east of Peking swore allegiance to the new dynasty. 

FuWang Proclaimed Emperor in Nanking— After the fall 
of Peking, all hopes of the Mings centered about Nanking, the former 
capital. In this city there was every part of the machinery necessary 
to the carrying on of a government similar to that at Peking, except 
an emperor. Their emperor, Ch'ung Cheng, was dead, and the 
whereabouts of the heir-apparent were unknown. Whom should 
they raise to the throne in such an hour of misfortune? Two 
imperial princes, Fu Wang and Lu Wang, had escaped to Huaian 
(ft 3c), a short distance north of Nanking. Fu Wang (Is 3E) had the 
better claim to the throne, but lacked the fitness of Lu Wang ($F j£), 
his uncle. Notwithstanding his unfitness Fu Wang was made 
emperor. Indeed he was the worst man the Mings could have had 
for so responsible a position at so critical a moment. The power 
soon fell into the hands of Grand Secretary (^c l£ ±) Ma Shih-ying 
(.^ -± 2&), who had been instrumental in placing the unworthy, 
drunken, and debauched prince upon the throne ; and the court at 
Nanking at once sank into a worse condition than that of Peking at 
the time of its fall. Shih K'o-fa (ifc. *J*£), a man of integrity and 
ability, who was more worthy of the premiership than his colleague, 
Ala Shih-ying. was appointed Commander-in-Chief of the armies at 
the front. This appointment virtually amounted to his banishment, 
and was made for the sole purpose of getting rid of a man whose 
presence was too dazzling a light in a city completely enveloped in 
darkness. The armies over which he was to take the supreme 
command were the troops of Hsiissu (& iffl) with headquarters at 
Ssnshui (i*), of Fengshou (SLW) with headquarters at Linhuai 



322 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

(Ks til), of Huaihai ($£ *&) with headquarters at Huaipei (*i4h), and 
of Ch'uho (fl& 5fij) with headquarters at Luchow (Ji ffl). They were 
strong in numbers but their generals were prone to quarrel among 
themselves, and were more swayed by personal prejudiees and party 
intrigues than the orders from their Commander-in-Chief. Indeed, 
to prevent disruption among such generals might justly be considered 
a superhuman task. And such was the condition of affairs in the 
South when the Prince Regent reached Peking. 

Restoration of Peace in Shantung, Honan and Shansi 
Provinces. — The Prince Regent was not ready to march into the 
South for some time, Li Tzu-ch'eng had made his way into Shensi, 
but the cities in Shantung had revolted against his usurpation. The 
country south of Peking, but more particularly Paoting (f&£), 
Taming (;*; ?,) and Chengting (JE£), had to be pacified. All this 
meant work, and it was as much as the Manchu soldiery could do 
during the summer. The task of restoring peace in Shantung and 
Honan was assigned to Prince Su C^f^aE), and General Yehch'en 
(tRifft^ED, at the same time, was sent to occupy Shansi. When 
the Emperor Shun Chih arrived at Peking on Oct. 30, 1644, the 
Manchus were in possession of only four out of the Seventeen 
Provinces of China (The two Provinces of Hupeh and Hunan form- 
ed but one under the Ming Dynasty and was known as the Hukuang 
Province). 

Crushing of Li Tzu-ch'eng's Rebellion.— The plan of the 
Prince Regent was to invade Shensi by way of Tungkuan and 
Yulin (ti5$t). At Tungkuan the rebel Li suffered another defeat at 
the hands of Prince Yu, and was obliged to fall back upon 
Sian, where he intended to make his final stand. Upon his arrival, 
however, word was received that the second division of the Manchus 
under Prince Ying and Wu San-kuei, with their Mongol and Chinese 
auxiliaries, had crossed the Yellow River at Paotechow (f& H >H\) 
and were bearing down upon Sian from Suite (M3I). Resistance 
seemed impossible, and, after having set fire to the city, Li Tzu- 
ch'eng escaped into Hukuang. His army still consisted of mc>re 
than 300,000 men but its spirit was low. After his death (an 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 323 

account of which has been given in a previous Chapter), the maior 
portion of it joined the standard of Ho T'eng-chiao (fa H J&), Viceroy 
of Hukuang, who was faithful to the cause of the fallen dynasty. 
Thanks to the Manchus, the rebellion that had cost Ch'ung Cheng 
his empire and his life was thus suppressed. Prince Yu, who arrived 
at Sian five days after the Rebel had left it, was now ordered to 
turn south and engage the forces under Shih K'o-fa. 

Tall of Yangchow and Death of Shih K'o-fa.— The Prince 
Regent had tried to convince Shih K'o-fa of his hopeless condition, 
but to no avail. The letter he sent, and the one he received in reply 
thereto, are both considered masterpieces. When the obstinate 
eiiaracter of the man was known, the Regent openly declared war 
against the South. Shih K'o-fa intended to build a long line of 
defence along the bank of the Yellow River, which in those days 
took a southeasterly route after leaving Kaifeng, and cut its way 
through the prefectures of Hsiichow and Huaian to the sea. In 
order to carry out this scheme successfully, he needed co-operation 
from the Brigadier-General at Suichow (Rf£«>H), Hunan (M$i). 
With this end in view, he sent General Kao Chieh (i£j$t), Commander 
of the Hsiissu (f£iffl) Army, to interview him. The Brigadier-General, 
who was on the point of going over to the Manchus, caused General 
Kao to be murdered, thus not only thwarting the plan of defence, 
but also depriving Shih K'o-fa of the only faithful general he had. 

In the meantime, the army of Prince Yu, fresh from the 
conquest of Shensi, had penetrated by different routes as far south 
as Kuei-te (ifH), and was about to attack Ssuchow (ffl iH'l). To 
check the advance of the Manchus required the strengthening of the 
garrison of the city, but at this critical juncture the Commander-in- 
Chief was summoned to defend Nanking. The army under Tso 
Liang-yu (£ K EE) in Hukuang had mutinied, and the mutineers 
were marching down from Hankow ($| p). The cause of this mutiny 
was that Grand Secretary Ma Shih-ying had unjustly withheld the 
pay due the troops. They were all fine soldiers, — men who had seen 
much fighting in checking the spread of the rebellion under Li Tzu- 
ch'eng, — and their march toward Nanking at once assumed a very 



324 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

serious aspect. Although the mutiny, or rebellion, died a natural 
death, when death overtook General Tso at Kiukiang (A fct), word 
to that effect was not received by Shih K'o-fa until he had arrived 
with the main division of his forces at Yentzii-chi (M^^t) on the 
south side of the Yangtze. Upon his return to Yangchow (H 5W), he 
found that Prince Yu was within six miles of the city. After a 
siege of seven days, the city was carried by storm, when a general 
massacre of the garrison and the population took place. For ten 
days every living thing that the Manchus could lay their hands on 
was brutally slaughtered. Shih K'o-fa was made prisoner ; and, as 
he refused to submit, was also put to the sword. 

Capture of Fu Wang. — After the death of Shih K'o-fa further 
resistance melted away. The appearance of a handful of Manchu 
cavalry on Peikushan (Ah^\ Ui), after they had crossed the Yangtze 
under cover- of a dense fog, was enough to put the garrison of 
Chinkiang (Utt) to flight. Cheng Hung-k'uei (W>\£M), its commander, 
was not heard from until he had made his way safely into Fukien.* 
Fu Wang and Ma Shih-ying made no attempt to hold Nanking. 
After the former had fled with his harem to Wtihu {M ffl), and the 
latter to Hangchow (tffciHI)', the people of Nanking opened the city 
gates to receive Prince Yu. At Wtihu Fu Wang was made prisoner 
by one of his own generals, who afterwards turned him over to the 
Manchus. Having gained possession of Wuhu, Prince Yu sent 
Bere Pulo ( : M #0 with a detachment to conquer Chekiang ($f U) . 

On the bank of the Clvien T'ang River (If if ft), whither Ma 
Shih-ying had marched an army from Hangchow to oppose the 
advance of the Manchus, Bere Pulo achieved a signal victory which 
sent Ma Shih-ying across the river into Chetung. Lu Wang, the 
Ming Prince who had been appointed to his fief at Hangchow, then 
capitulated and Hangchow was lost to the Mings forever. 

T'ang Wang and Lu Wang. — After the fall of Nanking, 
the Mings rallied their forces under T'ang Wang (Jjff 3£), a remote 



* He and his clansman, Cheng Chih-lung (gfj g ft), then raised T'ang Wang 
to the throne in Foochow. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 325 

descendant of Hung Wu (gljifc). He was proclaimed Emperor at 
Foochow in the province of Fukien. About the same time, the 
people of Chetung chose for their leader Lu Wang (&3E), also a 
prince of the Ming Dynasty. Lu Wang, who took up his residence 
at Shaohsing, assumed no imperial title, contenting himself with 
that of regent (!£ g|). Thus in place of Fu Wang two other princes 
were chosen to represent the fallen dynasty ; and the war of 
Manchu conquest in Southeast China has come to be known as the 
" War of the First Three Princes" (m H m Z&). 

Disunion in the Southeast. — Personally both T'ang Wang 
and Lu Wang were better men than Fu Wang. Had the officials 
under them only been able to forget their personal differences, they 
might have maintained a shadow of their lost empire in Southeast 
China. Their case was not altogether hopeless. Besides Chetung, 
the provinces of Fukien Ops &£), Kuangtung, (|g ^), Kuangsi (H ©), 
Yunnan (Mlfi), and Kueichow (Hfll), still remained intact. In 
Hukuang, the Manchus could barely hold the cities of Wuchang 
(jft tl) and Chinchow (M <>H) against the powerful army of Viceroy 
Ho Teng-chiao. In Kiangsi (tUBJ), General Yang Ting-lin {% M 
t$) still held Kanchow (ft :H'I) and Chian ( f l fi3c). In the central 
provinces, the people of Chiating (Mfe), Kiangyin (tEFt), Sung- 
kiang mU) : Huichow mm), Chich'i ilfl), Wukiang 0%fr), 
K'unshan (M UJ), Ch'ungming (^ $). and lhsing (!& #&), were giving 
the Manchus much trouble. For the present at least, the Manchus 
could send no army into Chetung or Fukien; and their position was 
further weakened by their struggle with Chang Hsien-chung (36 
JGR&), tne rebel chief in Szcchuan, and the mutinies in Shensi and 
Shansi. A compact South, under these circumstances, could easily 
have arrested the course of Manchu expansion on the Yangtze and 
made that mighty river the dividing line between two kingdoms, 
as it had so often been in other days. But a united South was an 
impossibility with the Mings who did everything in their power to 
foster dissension between Shaohsing and Foochow ; and it was this 
lack of union that did more harm to their cause than the arrows and 
firearms of the Manchus. 



326 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

The Manchus take Possession of Shensi and Szechuan. — 
With the advance of the spring of 1646, a strong Manchu army 
under the command of Prince Su and Wu San-knei marched into 
Shensi. By the end of Juiy every sign of resistance or discontent 
had been wiped out in .blood, and the more glorious Szechuan 
campaign had begun. That campaign was glorious, because the 
Manchus were lighting a hideous monster, the Rebel Chang Hsien- 
chung (M Wi &). In the battle of Hsiclrung (pi &), the Rebel Chang, 
whose cruelties had depopulated the rich province of Szechuan, was 
slain. After his death, the scattered bands of soldiers were either 
slaughtered, or chased out of the province. The victors marched 
as far south as the city of Tsun-i CM ^), on the border of Kuei- 
chow (M W province, when want of supplies compelled them to 
return to Peking. 

Overthrow of Lu Wang and T'ang Wang. — The year of 
the restoration of peace in Szechuan also marked the overthrow of 
both Lu Wang and T'ang Wang. The soldiers of Lu Wang had 
erected a long line of earthworks on the eastern bank of the Ch'ien 
T'ang River, and had taken every precaution to prevent any boat 
from falling into the hands of the Manchus. Occasionally they had 
even compelled the latter to act on the defensive. But after April, 
1646, things underwent a decided change. There was no longer any 
necessity for the Manchus to act on the defensive. Nor did they 
remain on the opposite bank trying to throw volleys into the Chinese 
earthworks. In consequence of a severe drought the river was so 
low at places that any one could ford it. No soldier could fight for 
a king who had taken to flight before danger came and had not 
.stopped to pay him. From Shaohsing, Lu Wang had lied to 
T'aichow, and from there he now set out by sea and sailed along the 
coast to Amoy. His flight simplified matters to a considerable 
extent. Shaohsing, Ningpo, T'aichow, Chinhua, and Ch'iichow now 
fell in rapid succession ; and ere long the whole of Chekiang was 
added to the Manchu domain. 

With Ch'uchow (M Wl) in the hands of the Manchus, Fukien 
was no longer safe. Besides this, General Chen Chih-lung(Kox- 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 327 

inga's father) , the mainstay of the Ming cause in this province, had 
been in secret communication with Huuq: Ch'eng-ch'ou with a view 
to surrendering-, and had withdrawn the larger portion of his 
soldiers to Formosa, leaving the approaches to Fukien practically 
unguarded. T'ang Wang, who was not blind to the character of 
his general, had left Fcochow for Yenp'ing (H^), in the hope 
of joining his friends at Kuugchow. Consequently the Manchus 
met with even less resistance in Fukien than in Chekiang. 
Alarmed by the celerity of the Manchus, and knowing that he 
could count on no help from Kuugchow, T'ang Wang turned to the 
south and fled to Tingchow, leaving Yenp'ing to its fate. His 
intention was undoubtedly to seek temporary shelter in Kuang- 
tung until Ho Teng-chiao, the Viceroy of Hukuang, could send 
him aid. But the chances were against him, and before his 
friends could send him help, he found himself a prisoner in the 
hands of the Manchu cavalry. He was promptly brought back 
to Foochow, where he committed suicide. To the joy of the 
Manchus, Chen Chili-lung, the traitor, wrote from Anping promis- 
ing submission. After the fall of Chuanchow (J& Hi) and Chang- 
chow (?fc JH), their work of conquering Fukien was at an end. 

Fall of Kanchow. — W 7 e have seen that the object T'ang 
Wang had in going up to Yenp'ing was to place himself nearer his 
friend in Kiangsi. He had heard how General Yang Ting-ling 
had driven the Manchus from Kanchow to Chian and thought 
that he could rely more on him than on any one else. At any rate, 
that General was the nearest man to whom he could appeal. 
Accordingly he sent Yang Ting-ling a letter, asking him to come 
with soldiers and meet him on the Kiangsi-Fukien border. This 
thoughtlessness on his part was solely responsible for the subse- 
quent disasters in Kiangsi. Yang Ting-ling obeyed, and left 
the defence of Chian in weaker hands. Before he reached Kan- 
chow he heard to his regret that Chian had been taken. He 
now had no time to go to the Kiangsi-Fukien border as requested. 
He must remain with Kanchow, which was being besieged. For 
two months the garrison defended the city with the courage of 



328 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

despair, hoping against hope that some day relief might yet come 
from Kuangtung. At last 5,000 soldiers came from Kuangtung, 
but only to be driven back. Then came the news of the death 
of T'ang Wang ! The city could hold out no longer, and the 
horrors of Yangchow were repeated. With the fall of Kanchow, 
which took place in November 1646, no further resistance was 
encountered by the Manchus in Kiangsi province. 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 329 

CHAPTER XXXVII 

THE CONQUEST OF CHINA— (Continued) 

Thk War with Kuei Wang 

Election of Kuei Wang. — With the overthrow of the 
Pooehow Government, it became necessary for the Mings to elect 
a successor to the position made vacant by the death of T'ang 
Wang. They had still the provinces of Kuangtung, Knangsi, 
Yunnan, and Kweichow, besides a portion of Huktiang. Among 
the men who espoused the cause of the fallen dynasty were Ch'vi 
Shih-ssu and Ho Teng-chiao, Viceroys of Iviangkuang and Hu- 
kuang respectively. The choice of these Viceroys fell upon Kuei 
Wang, a grandson of Wanli, who was now proclaimed at Chao- 
clring. Kuangtung. 

Loss of Kuangtung. — Their choice of Kuei Wang, how- 
ever, was not acceptable to the men who had recently escaped 
to Canton from Fooehow. In their midst was a younger 
brother of T'ang Wang whom they preferred; but as they could 
not prevail on Ch'ii Shih-ssu and Ho T'eng-chiao to adopt their 
views, they made him emperor at Canton. Thus within 70 miles 
of each other there existed two so-called Emperors of the Mings; 
and a sort of civil warfare was kept up between Canton and Chao- 
clvine to the detriment of their own cause. So intense was their 
hatred for each other that they actually forgot that Li Ch'eng-tung, 
a Chinese general who had submitted to the Manchus, was 
marching an army of considerable strength from Changchow 
across the Fukien border. Canton, unprepared for the invasion, 
was easily taken and Yii Ao (^ ||), for such was the name of the 
Canton emperor, promptly ended his life by his own hands. 
Kuei Wang, the surviving one of the puppet emperors, immedi- 
ately took to flight, leaving the province of Kuangtung to the 
Manchus. 

Defence of Kueilin (1647). — After leaving Chao-ch'ing, 
Kuei Wang did not stop until he arrived at Kueilin (ftiftO, a 



330 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

city of excellent position. Ch'ii Shih-ssu tried hard to have him 
remain, but he would do nothing of the kind because his chief 
eunuch.* Wang K'un, had told him to go to Chiianchow (^H) 
on the Hunan border. Indeed, he would not have been a 
representative of the House of Ming" had he had the courage to 
do otherwise. 

In the company of his eunuch, Kuei Wang bade adieu to the 
Kuangsi province, leaving Cli'ii Shih-ssu, the courageous and loyal 
minister, to hold Kueilin against the victorious army of Li 
Ch'eng-tung. Notwithstanding the fact that the city had been 
abandoned by the so-called King, the garrison, thanks to the 
energy of Ch'u Shih-ssu, gave a good account of itself by with- 
standing all the attacks of the enemy. At length uprisings in 
Kuangtung compelled Li Ch'eng-tung to withdraw, and while he 
was away, Chii Shih-ssu recovered nearly all of the cities in 
Kuangsi that had been taken by the Manchus. 

Loss of Hunan (1647).— The success of Civil Shih-ssu, how- 
ever, was more than eclipsed by the reverses sustained by Ho Teng- 
chiao in Hunan. Kuei Wang's stay in Chiianchow was indirectly 
responsible for these. The forces under Ho Teng-chiao, or more 
particularly the thirteen divisions, it must be observed, consisted 
largely of the old adherents of Li Tzu-ch'eng, who knew no 
discipline. Numerically the army was strong, but morally it was 
weak. After the arrival of Kuei Wang at Chiianchow things went 
from bad to worse. Liu Cheng-yiin iWil^it), one of the com- 
manders of the thirreen divisions, having secured the confidence of 
the emperor, who was virtually a prisoner in his hands, soon became 
so powerful that he even forced the Viceroy at Changsha to assume 
a subordinate position. The result was that the latter completely 
lost what control he had had over the men who were to defend 
Hunan. At this juncture an immense Imperial army under the joint 
command of K'ung Yu-te (Mf'#.), Shang K'o-hsi, (ftpJ^) and Keng 
Ching-chung (JfeMt&) appeared at Yochow (©Ml). Awed by the size 
of the army the garrison of Yi Yang (S 1%) immediately retreated to 



* This eunuch was Wang K'un (]£ J$), who had escaped from Peking. He 
was Kuei Wang's eunuch-premier ( ff] fiff !£). 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 331 

Changsha (-0k &) to demand their overdue pay. The soldiers were 
so riotous that Ho Teng-chiao found it advisable for him to leave 
the city: and without its governor, or head, Hunan was easily 
subdued. Both Hengchow ($j >M) and Yungchow G&ffl), the two 
southernmost prefectures of Hunan, soon passed into the hands of 
the Imperialists. Kuei Wang, who was apparently never tired of 
moving from place to place, first tied to Wu Kang and thence to 
Liuchow (#p ^H). Had it not been for the fresh army raised by the 
joint efforts of Ho Teng-chiao and Ch'u Shih-ssu, for the sole 
purpose of holding Chiianchow, the Imperialists would have overrun 
the whole of Kiangsi before the close of 1647. 

Insurrections in Kiangsi, Kuangtung and Shansi.— The 
next year Kuei Wang was at the height of his power. At a moment 
when his destruction seemed certain, insurrections broke out in many 
places in the empire, threatening to bring the Manchu rule to an 
ignominious end. The first were those led by Chin Sheng-huan (&MM) 
and Li Ch'eng-tung, two able officers, who had successfully extended 
the Manchu authority throughout the provinces of Kiangsi and 
Kuangtung. Notwithstanding iheir services both these men had 
been placeel in subordinate positions under Manchus in their respec- 
tive provinces and were being constantly w r atched. That was the 
natural sequence of serving under aliens, and Chin and Ti had every 
reason to regret their lot. In 1648 they could endure it no longer, 
and both of them openly revolted and gave their help to Kuei Wang, 
thus reducing the Manchu authority in Kiangsi and Kuangtung to the 
lowest ebb. About this time, Li Chan-ch'un (3*£#) in Szechuan, and 
Chiang Kuei(HSI)in Tatung, dissatisfied with the new order of things, 
also rebelled and returned to their former allegiance by acknowledging 
Kuei Wang as their sovereign. While the Imperial army of 
Hunan was withdrawn into Kiangsi, Ho Teng-chiao showed his 
usual energy by recovering the cities of Yungchow, Hengchow, 
Paoching and Changte. Thus all on a sudden Kuei Wang found 
himself master not only of Yunnan, Kueichow, and Kuangsi, but 
also of Kuangtung, Kiangsi, Hunan, Szechuan, .Shensi, and Shansi. 
The Manchus trembled on the throne and it looked as if tliev 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

might have to retrace their steps into Manchuria at no distant 
date. 

Kiangsi and Hunan Reconquered. — The glory of Kuei 
Wang-, however, was short-lived. With the dawn of 1649 the Manchu 
sun once more shone out brilliantly in Kiangsi. In this province the 
insurgents had carried everything except the city of Kanchow 
($t:H'|). While they were laying siege to Kanchow or conducting 
negotiations for its surrender, a Manchu army of considerable 
strength marched out from Nanking; and, carrying everything 
before them along the bank of the Yangtze, forced Chin Sheng-huan 
10 return north to defend the city of Nanchang. Wang Te-jen 
(BE. # £:), the second in command of the insurgent army, wished to 
march on Kiukiang in order to threaten the enemy's flank ; but as 
his orders were peremptory, he had to follow his chief and enter the 
city, where they were successfully penned up within the walls. The 
besiegers wisely busied themselves in preventing anything in the 
nature of food from getting into Nanchang. At length when 
starvation had done its work, and Nanchang succumbed to ics 
besiegers, both Chin Sheng-huan and Wang Te-jen were executed. 
Several times had Li Ch'eng-tung tried to come to the aid of his 
friends ; but he never advanced beyond Kanchow. When the fall 
of Nanchang relieved the tremendous hordes, his fate too was 
sealed. He wanted to make a stand at Hsin Feng (fg H), but his 
men refused to light. Broken-hearted and friendless, he drowned 
all his sorrows in a near-b}^ river. 

While the insurrection of Kiangsi was being suppressed, the 
Imperialists in Hunan were no less successful. At the town of 
Hsiangtang, where he was making a tour of inspection, the gallant 
Viceroy, Ho Teng-chiao, was taken by surprise and carried a 
prisoner into Changsha to meet his death. One division of the 
Imperialists under Prince Kung Yu-te then captured Hengchow and 
Yungchow in the south; and another under Prince Cheng (ifttgi), 
Ch'enchow (M 'M) and other cities in the northwest. Before the 
close of 1649, Hunan was once more a province of the Manchu 
Empire. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 333 

Loss of the Two Kuang Provinces.— With Kiangsi and 
Hunan restored to the Manchus the two provinces to the south 
could not hold out much longer. Immediately upon the death of 
Li Ch'eng-tuug.Kuei Wang had appointed a new viceroy of the two 
Kuang provinces with headquarters at Canton ; and had sent a 
strong force to guard the passes through the line of hills, known as 
the Yii Ling (#£ U), which separates Kuangtung from Kiangsi. In 
the beginning of 1650 a small path was revealed to Prince Shang 
K'o-hsi by a deserter, and although difficult, it led his men into 
Kuangtung, without their going through the deep line of defen- 
sive works. Yet in the face of diseases which smote down a 
considerable part of his army, he could not approach Canton 
except by a regular siege. It was not until the cold season had set 
in and reinforcements had begun to arrive from Kiangsi that he 
was able to resume more vigorous operations. On December 2, 
1650, Canton was carried by assault and Tu Yung-ho U± ?k $1), the 
new viceroy, fled to Hainan. Six days later Kueilin, the 
capital of Kuangsi, also fell; and both General Chang Tung- 
ch'ang (M IpJ fit) and Ch'ii Shih-ssu were captured by Prince 
Kung Yu-te. They spent their lonely hours in the dungeon 
writing poems until they were executed. General Chang had 
fought most stubbornly at Chvianchow, and it was only through 
want of provisions that he had fallen back upon Kueilin. 
Kuei Wang, who had recently returned to Kueilin, now left 
it again never to return, going this time towards Nanning (j$j &) on 
the Kuangsi- Yunnan border. As the Manchu soldiers after two 
years' service in the South needed rest, the main force under 
Prince Cheng (Manchu) returned in 1651 to Peking. Prince 
Kung and Prince Shang were appointed to reside in the provinces 
of Kuangsi and Kuangtung respectively. 

Shansi, Shensi, and Szechuan Reconquered. — We shall 

now turn to the northwest. To cope with the critical situation 
created by the rebellion of Chiang Kuei, two armies under Generals 
(tr> &c) Nikan (/E ±@) and Pulo (if fa) were sent from Peking ; and a 
third, under Prince Wu San-kuei, inarched north from Hanchuno- 



334 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

(H *t»). In 1649 the three armies were everywhere success- 
ful. Realizing their desperate situation, the insurgents finally 
killed their own leader, Chiang Kuei (J£$R), in Tatung ; and in 
course of time, all the cities of Shensi and Shansi were retaken. 
After the restoration of peace, Prince Wu San-kuei returned to 
Hanchung; and from that point he marched into Szechuan, 
where he was quite as successful. By the end of 1650, all traces 
of insurrection in the northwest had been wiped out in blood. 

The YUnkuei Provinces.— The Yunkuei provinces now 
became the principal seat of war. As already stated, most of the 
adherents of Chang Hsien-chung had been chased across the 
border of Szechuan into Kueichow. Frcm Kr.eichow, some 
of them found their way into Yunnan, driving- out the Ming 
officials as they went. By the time Kuei Wang arrived at 
Xanning, both provinces were completely in the hands of those 
who up to a short time before had fought so desperately to bring 
about the downfall of the Ming Dynasty. But as Kuei Wang was 
practically left without a friend, he conferred on Sun K'o-wang 
(M nJ ^), their chief at Kuei-yang (M fi&), the title of Ch'in Wang 
(^ EE) (Prince of Ch'in) — an honor Sun had tried in vain to 
obtain during the previous year. This title at once raised 
him to a commanding position in Yunkuei ; and he in turn sent 
to Kuei Wang at Anlung (3c Pf ) on the Kuangsi-Yiinnan border, 
a body of three thousand soldiers, nominally to act as his body- 
guard, but really to keep watch over him. An invasion of 
Szechuan and Hunan soon convinced the Peking government that 
a new foe had arisen in the southwest. In the province of 
Szechuan, Prince Wu San-kuei was gradually driven as far north 
as Hanchung. From Hunan, the invaders turned south and 
marched into Kuangsi, where they took Kueilin, and would 
have captured Prince K'ung Yu-te himself had he not committed 
suicide. 

Disagreement between Sun K'o-wang and Li Ting- 
kuo. — Li Ting-kuo (^^®), himself a former rebel, was the 
man who had personally conducted operations in Hunan and 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 335 

Kuansrsi. So elated was he bv his success at Kueilin that he 
refused to take any further instructions from Sun K'o-wang. 
From that time their relations were anything but friendly. Sun 
refused to send him supplies or help, and the result was that after a 
temporary stay in Kuaugsi, he was rapidly driven back to Wukang 
in Hunan. In 1655 Li Ting-kuo was further pressed by Prince 
Shang K'o-hsi and gradually withdrew into Nanning. His colleague 
Liu Wen-hsiu (W\~Xt§) , who had driven Wn San-kuei out of Sze- 
chuan, was in turn being driven out by that foe. Thus were 
Kuei Wang's fortunes once more reduced to a low ebb. 

At this juncture, Kuei Wang was justly alarmed by the 
evident designs of Sun K'o-waug, who had mercilessly put to 
death man}' of Kuei Wang's ministers and founded six boards at 
Kueiyang. It was clear that the next thing on his program was 
nothing short of the murder of Kuei Wang himself. On the 
presumption that the foe of his enemy might prove a faithful 
friend, Kuei Wang now appealed to Li Ting-kuo to save his 
life by making him Prince of Chin (^5E). Moved by his 
pathetic appeal, Ting-kuo appeared at Anlung with an army and 
escorted Kuei Wang into Yunnan, where he was joined by the 
forces of Liu Wen-hsiu. In 1657 the forces of Sun K'o-wang 
and the allied forces of Li Tiug-kuo and Wen-hsiu were drawn 
up in battle array on the opposite banks of the San Cha Ho 
'H££M). In the engagement that ensued, Sun K'o-wang was so 
badly defeated that he dared not stop at Kueiyang but continued 
his flight to Changsha, where he tendered his submission to Hung 
Ch'eng-ch'ou, the Viceroy of Hukuang. 

Invasion of Kueichow and Yiinnan.— Hitherto the Peking 
Government had been inclined to let Kuei Wang alone in the 
southwest. The Manchus had every reason to feel contented. 
An empire larger than they had ever dreamed of had fallen into 
their hands, and they wanted to consolidate it before trying to 
extend it. But with the submission of Sun K'o-wang, every 
thing was changed. When this new ally was found, Hung Ch'eng- 
ch'ou. who would never rest satisfied until he had brought the 



336 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

whole of China to the feet of the Manchus, promptly decided upon 
a plan of invasion. Three Imperial armies, — one from Hunan, 
another from Szechuan, and a third from Kuangsi, — were to set 
out simultaneously and all converge on the city of Kueiyang. 
These armies arrived at their destination in 1658; and, as the city 
was poorly defended, it was easily taken. In the autumn the 
Imperial forces, braced by the arrival from Peking of Prince Hsin 
(fit) as Field Marshal, renewed their march. Since it commanded 
the main route from Kueichow into Yunnan, Li Ting-kuo tried to 
hold the famous Iron-Chain Bridge (g$ It W) across the Pei P'an 
River (Ah 4S 71), but had to give way before a superior army. His 
next hope lay in the line of ambuscades skilfully laid along a most 
difficult path through the Kaoli Kung Shan (Hn^RUj), a spur 
of the Hsueh Shan (g Uj), running parallel to the great Nu River 
mtL). He had sent Kuei Wang to Tengyiieh (If |g), and felt 
confident that if the Imperial army should take up the pursuit, he 
had yet a chance of annihilating it. But as a deserter disclosed 
the secret to the pursuers, only a few thousand of the Manchus 
perished in the trap. From Tengyiieh he crossed the frontier 
into Burmah, a country, which up to a hundred years before, had 
been paying tribute to his great ancestors. After all resistance 
was crushed, Prince Wu San-kuei was given permission to take 
up his official residence at Yunnanfu, in order to keep an eye on 
Burmah. 

Invasion of Burmah. — In Burmah Kuei Wang might have 
spent his last days in peace but for W T u San-kuei. It is stated 
that the latter already cherished a hope of obtaining the Chinese 
throne for himself, and was therefore anxious that there should be 
no direct descendant of the founder of the Ming Dynasty. At any 
rate, it was due entirely to his persistent entreaties that the Peking 
Government sent a demand to the king of Burmah for the 
surrender of the fugitive. The demand having been disregarded, 
a grand army numbering 100,000 was concentrated on the 
Yunnan frontier in 1661, ready to use force. 



OUTLINES OV CHINESE HISTORY :tf7 

Kuei Wang had not been a welcome guest in Burmah. Hear- 
ing of his arrival at Bhamo, Pentagle, King of Burmah, sent him 
an escort and gave him a residence in the city of Jagaing, across 
the Irrawaddy from Ava, his capital. So far everything was well 
and good. But Li Ting-kuo soon heard of the whereabouts of 
his king, and offered to come with the remnant of his army to 
take him to a more suitable place. As Pentagle would not allow 
his army to come into the country, Li Ting-kuo declared war upon 
the Burmese, with the result that he was completely defeated; 
and afterward did everything he could to stir up trouble between 
Burmah and her neighboring states. Whether tired of his unwel- 
come guest, or through fear of the Chinese, Maha Pavares 
Dhamma Raja, the murderer and successor of Pentagle, caused 
the unfortunate Kuei Wang, with his wdfe, son, and other rel- 
atives, to the number of one hundred or more, to be arrested and 
delivered up to Wu San-kuei at Ava. Having secured the royal 
captives Wu San-kuei returned with his army into Yiinnanfu ; 
and in 1662 caused Kuei Wang to be strangled. While being led 
to the execution ground, his son, a lad of twelve years, cried 
out; " What have my ancestors in general, and my father and I 
in particular done to you to merit the treatment we now receive 
from your hands? " San-kuei might have answered, " Nothing, 
but you are in my way, my lad." He, however, chose to keep 
his secret to himself, and the boy was beheaded. With the death 
of Kuei Wang, all resistance to the Manchu domination of China 
in favor of her former rulers was at an end. 

Prolonged Resistance of the Chinese. — For eighteen 
years, the Chinese had continued to oppose the advance of the 
Manchus. Nothing further is needed to show the hatred the 
Chinese have for foreign rule. Under the fore'gn yoke, all the 
unparallelled crimes of the later rulers of the Mings and their 
eunuchs were at once forgotten, and every one willingly gave up 
his life and property in the interest of freedom. The failure of 
the Chinese was not the result of their lack of patriotism, but 
was due entirelv to their lack of organization and union. The 



338 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

resistance was strongest in the South, but the people in the North 
were no less patriotic. They had seen enough of the lawlessness 
of the rebels. It was a choice between two evils, and they chose 
the lesser which meant order and peace. 

With due justice to all concerned, it must be said that the 
Manchus, after- their coming into China, did put down two 
formidable rebellions, and established in their place law and order. 
It was the Chinese horror of foreign government that compelled 
them to take the stand they did. China at last was overpowered; 
but the hearts of her people were never subdued. 



Note : That the women throughout China never adopted the Manchu attire 
is a fact too conspicuous to need explanation. In many places an equally remark- 
able custom has been observed to the present day of requiring every newly-born 
child to be dressed in the Ming attire; while at other places, dead bodies are 
usually wrapt in a similar manner. Thus are we reminded that " so long as 
we live, we shall not submit to the Manchus, and even when we die, it is without 
submission to the Manchus'' (&;£JjRYSt, ££^URtfl)- 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 339 

CHAPTER XXXVIII 

FURTHER STRUGGLES WITH THE MANCHUS 

The So-called Pirates. — In the foregoing chapters, we have 
seen how the Chinese struggled (1644-1661) with the Manchus on 
land ; and we shall now see how that struggle was extended to the 
sea. During these years almost every good-sized island on the coast 
of China was used as a base for hostile preparations against the 
Manchus ; and many of the brave sons of China after their fruitless 
attempts on the mainland gladly took to the sea either to avoid 
capture or to organize further resistance. The Chinese historians 
have been wont to call these men " Pirates " because they boarded 
ships. But their aim was not piratical, even though many pirates 
were undoubtedly with them. The fact that even pirates flocked 
together to make an effort to free China from the clutches of a 
foreigner, only tends to make their deeds the more laudable. 

Lu Wang at Nan-ao.— The first of the so-called pirates to 
claim our attention was the Lu Wang who was expelled from 
Chekiang in 1646. He sailed down the coast as far south as the 
island of Xan-ao (i^&), where he was joined by many who still 
remained faithful to the house he represented. During the next two 
years (1647-8), he made several attempts to invade Fukien. At 
one time he was in possession of several cities on the coast, including 
Kienning (W&), Shaowu (3R$c), Hsinghua (1Kb), and Funing 
(ia^), though by the autumn of 1649 everything on the mainland 
was lost to him, and he was once more obliged to put to sea. 

His Descent Upon Chekiang. — His next rendezvous was 
Chushan (M tfj), an island which commands the entrance to the Ch'ien 
Tang (£#) River. Huang Pin-ch'ing (ft MM), who had for 
years held the island against the Manchus, was killed in an attempt 
to prevent Lu Wang from landing, but for some time afterward 
the island was honored with the royal residence. Frequent ex- 
peditions up the Cirien T'ang River soon made known the return of 
Lu Wang to his former home, and many of the inhabitants along 



340 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



the coast, particularly in the prefectures of Wenchow (&iW), T'ai- 
chow (£*H>, Ningpo (^ $), and Shaohsing ($a '&), lent him aid, 
by erecting hundreds of barricades in the hilly parts of the country, 
They cancelled their new allegiance and caused no little trouble 
to the authorities. The situation was ably summed up by 
Ch'en Chin (18118), the Viceroy of Minche, in his report to 
Peking as follows : — "Whenever the pirates land, the highway 
robbers extend them aid, and whenever steps are taken to punish 
the latter, they at once go on board the ships in the harbor 
and sail away. Not only is the coast of Fukien and Kuangtung 
exposed to their raids, but the cities of Soochow (J&'JH) and Sung- 
kiang (& ft) to the north are also in danger of an invasion. '* 

In the fall of 1651, Lu Wang ventured too far from his base. 
Thinking that the authorities would not take the offensive, he set 
out with a large fleet to capture Wusung (^ #£), and left only 6,000 
men to defend Chushan. This was Viceroy Ch'ens opportunity. 
Under cover of a dense fog, he landed his army on Chushan and 
annihilated the garrison that had been left behind. Once more with- 
out a home, Lu Wang escaped with his fleet to Amoy (g PI), and 

lived the rest of his unhappy days a 
guest of Cheng Ch'eng-kung.* In 
1662 he died in Formosa, and was 
the only one of the four princes, 
who had had the courage to dispute 
the Manchu authority, to die a 
natural death. 

Origin of the Name Kox- 
inga, or Koshinga.— Cheng 
Ch'eng-kung was the son of Cheng 
Chih-lung and a Japanese woman. 
He was such a favorite with the 
court at Foochow that T'ang Wang 




*Lu Wang no longer used his title of regent (!£|!I|), but adopted that of 
Yu Kung (J& <&) or " Sojourner," instead. Koxinga, who never forgot the 
dispute between T'ang Wang and the Yu Kung, refused to accord him royal 
honors, although he permitted him to remain with him till the end of his life. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY U\ 

conferred on him the royal surname of Chu (jfe)! Thenceforth he 

became known among his countrymen, the Southern Fukiencse, 
as Kuo-Hsing-Ya ($a&Jfr), or "Lord of the Royal Surname"; 
hence his name " Koxinga," or " Koshinga," as it was written by 
the Portuguese. Koxinga remained a loyal subject of the Ming 
Dynasty all his life, and of all its friends he was the most successful. 
Koxinga Harasses the Coast of Fukien.— When Cheng 
Chih-lung tendered his submission to the Manchus, his son signified 
his disapproval by fleeing to Amoy and fortifying that island. 
Koxinga, it must be borne in mind, belonged to a city noted for its 
tine sailors.* His father had been a sort of sea-lord on the coast. 
It is stated that no junk could ply between Amoy, then the centre of 
foreign trade in China, and the outside .world, without flying his 
flag, and for this privilege as much as $3,000 was charged. When 
the sea-faring people of Fukien, Cheng Chih-lung's friends, heard 
of what the father had done, they naturally transferred their 
fidelity to the son. The father had shaved his head and was 
to them a traitor; but as the son would do nothing of the kind, 
he was a national hero, and at once became their new lord and 
new leader. Eastern Kuangtung supplied him with rice and 
other necessities of life ; Southern Fukien, with men to man 
his ships and to light his battles; and Foochow and Wenchow, 
with the necessary timber for shipbuilding."!' Notwithstanding 
the strong force stationed along the coast, Koxinga could sail 
here and there as he pleased and nothing could induce him to give 
up his noble purpose. He would not accept any title of nobility§ 
from the Manchu Emperor, or listen to any advice or threats 
from his agents ; and a command from his father to surrender 
was completely ignored. At one time, he laid siege to the city of 
Foochow ; and at another, he slew the Viceroy of Minche in open 
battle near Kiang Tung Chiao (tLM fH). 



* He was a native of Xau-ngau, Fukien. 
t The Memorial from a certain Censor to Shun Chih. 

§He was offered the title, "Duke of Haich'eng " (j^jft >&) ; Haich'&ig being 
.. city not far from Amoy. The same title was later given to Huang Wu (jfc ^) 
Page 356), and is still held by his descendants at the present day. 



342 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Koxhiga's First Attempt to Seize Nanking.— His fame 
was such that Kuei Wang conferred upon him the title of Prince 
of Yen P'ing (M^tfftiE), and thus stimulated him to greater 
efforts. He now had 50,000 sailors, 100,000 soldiers, one half of 
whom were cavalry, and some 20,000 auxiliaries. Sailing north- 
ward with these in 1654, he intended to effect a landing between 
Wenchow and T'aichow, and then march to Nanking. Unfor- 
tunately, he encountered a severe typhoon on the coast; and, after 
having lost a number of ships and several thousand soldiers, was 
compelled to return to Amoy with a heavy heart. 

His Second Attempt. — His second attempt in 1659 was 
more successful. This time he came within sight of Nanking, 
although he did not succeed in capturing it. The garrison of 
Nanking then was considerably weakened by the contingent it had 
sent into Kueichow. Suspecting the weakness of the garrison, 
Koxinga brought his fleet of seventeen ships up the Yangtze, 
landed 2,000 men near Chinkiang and routed, at Yang P ; eng Shan 
(HrHtU), an immense army that had been arrayed against him. 
Chinkiang was taken and the vicinity of Nanking w 7 as reached ; 
and there to his great delight, he saw the tomb of Hung Wu 
($& b£), the founder of the Ming Dynasty. One of his lieutenants 
suggested to him that he should march immediately to Yangcliow 
(HiM'l), in order to threaten the communication between Shan- 
tung and the South, and prevent the grain of Chekiang from 
getting into the North. This was certainly sound advice, but 
Koxinga refused to take it. 

In the meantime, a squadron under Admiral Chang Huang- 
yen (5&@1") had under Koxinga's orders landed a body of men 
at Wuhn to advance in the direction of Ning Kuo (# HI) and 
Huichow (ilU'H). Four prefectures (jflf), three departmental 
districts OH), and twenty-four districts ($&), in Anhui, opened 
their gates to them. The fact that the Emperor Shun Chili 
talked of taking the field himself, is evidence of the panic into 
which Peking was thrown upon hearing of Koxinga's success in 
the South. There was, however, no necessity for this step. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY $43 

Before the walls of Nanking-, Koxinga soon sustained a defeat which 
made a retreat advisable; and his troops in Anhui also had to with- 
draw before the victorious army now returning from Kweichow. 
Koxinga once more returned to Amoy. He never ventured north 
with his fleet again, but founded for himself a valuable kingdom 
in the island of Formosa. 

Formosa Prior to Its Occupation by Koxinga.— Formosa, 
one of the largest islands on the coast of Asia, is about 260 miles 
in length, and 60 to 70 miles broad in its widest part. It is 
separated from Fukien province by a channel about 100 miles in 
width. The name it bears is of Portuguese origin, — signifying 
''beautiful island." To the Chinese it is T'aiwan (£$), or 
Pishina (sit f? ffl) ; and it is stated that it was first sighted off the 
Pescadores (JS2j$I) by an official of the Sung Dynasty. The 
Japanese claim that they attempted to make a colony out of it in 
1620; but large numbers of Chinese were there before that date.* 
The first Europeans to visit the island were the Portuguese. 
When the Dutch came in 1624, after their expulsion from the 
Pescadores by the Chinese, they found a number of Spaniards in 
in the island whom they later drove out. They founded several 
settlements in Formosa, of which Fort Zealaudia (^c 2 ^) and Fort 
Provintia (#$) were the notable ones. 

Chinese Immigration. — " The establishment of the Manchu 
Dynasty caused thousands of Chinese families to emigrate to 
Formosa. They either settled under the Dutch, or planted 
colonies of their own, and by their industry soon changed the 



*During the 2nd decade of the 1 6th century, a certain Chinese pirate, by 
the name of Ling Tao-ch'ien ($fc 10. f£), found refuge in this island. According to 
a Chinese account, the Japanese came to the island at the instance of a Chinese 
pirate, Yen Ssii-chi (g^ Jg ^). His adherents were numerous and Cheng Chih- 
lung was one of them. Cheng made his residence at Anping for a good many 
years, and during all the time that he was the power behind T'ang Wang, Anping 
remained his headquarters and the place where his treasures were stored. Cheng 
surrendered to the Mings in 1628, or the 1st year of Ch'ung Cheng. The authori- 
ties of Fukien then having no exact knowledge of the extent of Formosa, 
suggested to the Dutch that they should move from the Pescadores to that island. 



-II OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

desolate island into a cultivated country, and increased the 
production of rice and sugar for exportation. The immigration 
went on so rapidly that the Dutch became greatly alarmed ; but, 
instead of taking wise measures to conciliate and instruct the 
colonists, they tried to prevent their landing, and thereby did 
much to irritate them and lead them to join in any likely attempt 
to expel the foreigners." * 

Koxinga Drives out the Dutch.— At last the end of Dutch 
rule in Formosa was at hand. Koxinga was in need of a better 
home than Amoy, or Ouemoy (^fl). He had been in secret 
c ommunication with the Chinese in Formosa, and had obtained an 
official map of the island from one of the Dutch officials. In 
June, 1661, he completed his preparations for invading Formosa, 
placed his son, Cheng Ching (£fcf&), at the head of affairs in 
Amoy, and, leading the expedition himself, landed 25,000 men in 
the neighborhood of Fort Zealandia, and immediately proceeded to 
cut off the communication between the forts. Fort Provintia 
was forced to surrender and Fort Zealandia was left to defend 
itself as best it could. As relief had to come from without, 
Coyet, the Dutch governor of Formosa, sent the swiftest ship he 
had to Batavia for help. In response to his appeal ten ships and 
seven hundred men arrived from Batavia; and, for a time, 
Koxinga's operations were checked. During the respite, Coyet 
committed a grave blunder, by sending away five ships to aid the 
Chinese authorities in an attempt to dislodge Koxinga's son from 
Amoy. This caused Koxinga to renew with vigor his attack on 
Fort Zealandia which, after a nine months 1 siege, surrendered.! 
The Dutch flag came down never to go up again. 

Koxinga in Formosa; His Death. — Koxinga now busied 
himself in putting his new home in order. Laws were made, 



::; Williamb' "A History of China." 

i Koxinga said to the Dutch; "1 have come to take possession of what was 
unce my father's property. So far as the treasures you have accumulated here 
:»re concerned, you can ship them away with you." 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 345 

schools founded, and the approaches to the island fortified. Nor 
did he forget Amoy and Ouemoy whose garrisons he strengthened. 
With a view to cultivating the friendship of his immediate neigh- 
bors, he sent embassies both to Japan and the Philippine Islands, 
the latter being then in the hands of the Spaniards. Fort Pro- 
vintia, under its new name of Ch'engT'ien Fu ($; Ji /ft), became the 
seat of Koxinga's government, where many an unfortunate prince 
of the fallen house, like Eu Wang, was received with open arms. 
Formosa in fact became an asylum for all Chinese who refused to 
submit to Manchu rule. In view of the continuous emigration, 
laws were made by the Emperor Shun Chili forbidding any one to 
embark on the sea, even for the purposes of trade or fishing, and 
calling upon the inhabitants of Fukien to retire 30 It from the 
coast. It was hoped that by these measures Koxinga would be 
prevented from receiving any supplies of men or provisions from 
the mainland. Convinced that there was no hope of Koxinga's 
ever becoming a subject of the Manchu Empire, the authorities 
caused his poor father, Cheng Chih-lung, who had been kept a 
prisoner in Ninguta, to be put to death for having lost all 
influence over his son. Koxinga survived his father but a short 
time. In 1662 death cut short his remarkable career at the early 
age of 39. His death left the Manchus in undisputed possession 
of the whole of China Proper, as the prize of eighteen years' hard 
and incessant fighting. Formosa remained in Koxinga's family 
for a period of twenty-two years after his death. 



346 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER XXXIX 

POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CHANGES UNDER 
THE MANCHU REGIME 

Introductory. — To present an elaborate account of the 

political and social organization of China under the Manchus is 

outside of the scope of the present treatise. What we propose to 

do is rather to trace some of the more important changes that 

followed the great event of 1644. In that memorable year, a 

native dynasty, after having ruled China for over two centuries 

and a half, was dethroned and its place was taken by a people fuP 

s 
of energy and martial spirit, and with institutions and manner 

different from those of China. The whole country finally lay pros- 
trate at their feet, and in the midst of war every institution 
had been shaken to the very foundation. The new ruler was ever 
ready to enforce law with an iron hand. Under these circum 
stances it will be of interest to observe how much of the old order 
cf things remained and how much that was new was introduced. 

Continuation of the Old Form of Government ; Manchu 
Officials Have Precedence of their Chinese Colleagues.— As has 




Diagram showing essential elements of provincial administration. (Morse) 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 347 

been seen in the foregoing pages, the reign of Shun Chili was 
largely occupied with fighting. Incessant warfare necessarily 
«uispended all efforts at reform ; and as a result the old form of 
government was continued. The emperor remained the head of 
the state, the source of power, the fountain of justice, and the 
high priest of the people. In the work of governing, he was 
assisted by six boards, — the Six Boards of the Ming Dynasty 
which had been adopted in Mukden. Most of those who had held 
office under the previous dynasty, were, by order of the prince 
regent, continued in the same appointments, although they were 
now subordinated to a Manchu bearing the same title. In other 
words, with the exception of certain offices which could not be 
held by persons other than Manchus, every office of importance 
connected with the Central Government became a sort of partner- 
ship between two persons, cue of whom was Manchu and the 
other Chinese. The Manchu always had precedence of his 
colleague, and was therefore in a position to impose his will upon 
his associate. For a time he w r as also the spokesman.* So long 
as the co-occupants of an office were not able to understand each 
other, they were at the mercy of their interpreter, or Ch'ihsinlang 
(I? *fr M)» Indeed, this was the chief reason named for abolishing 
the office of interpreter in the 15th year of Shun Chili. 

The seal of office continued to be used in official documents 
instead of signatures. At first the inscriptions were in both 
Chinese and Manchu, the seal of Yen Sheng Kung (ff M &)f with 
only the Chinese characters, being the one exception. 

The Cabinet or Nei Ko. — The grand secretaries (* fy ±) of 
the Manchus in Mukden were n.ere clerks and had nothing to do 
with the executive functions of the state. After their arrival at 
Peking, the new rulers found that the functions of their grand 
secretaries were identical with those of the members of the Han 
Lin Academy ($ft )fo !£). Since the retention of the latter rendered 



imperial Decree of the 13th year of Shun Chili. 
tSee Page 349. 



348 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

their grand .secretaries superfluous, they were abolished ; and at 
the same time the cabinet system of the Mings was reinstated. 
Henceforth the cabinet, or Nei Ko (fa H), consisting of Six Grand 
Secretaries, half Mauchu and half Chinese, as well as a number 
of subordinate officials, became the most powerful and important 
body under the Throne. In the next century it was superseded 
in active usefulness by the Chuuchich'u (¥$§|g), or Grand 
Council. No Chinese could become a grand secretary unless he 
had been a member of the Han Lin Academy, — a requirement 
which was not exacted of a Manchu. 

Eunuchs. — Eunuchs were not known among the Manchus 
before their coming into China, but the conquerors were aware of 
the part this class of persons had played during the Ming Dynasty. 
The first thing the Manchus did was to deprive them of their power, 
and exclude them from audiences and other state ceremonies. 
So much stands to their credit, but they did not go far enough. 
So long as there was an emperor's harem, so long would there be 
eunuchs. After the abolition of the ' ; Thirteen Yamens " (tH| 
H) in the 18th year of Shun Chili, most of the duties which had 
belonged to the eunuchs of the Mings were assigned to the Nei 
Wu Fu (\HWM), or Household Department. A eunuch was 
forbidden by the statutes to hold any rank above the fourth grade, 
or interfere with state affairs. These restraints largely account 
for the fact that no abuse, such as had made the name of the Ming 
Dynasty a shame, was repeated under the Manchus. 

The System of Literary Examinations. — The system of 
literary examinations, as told in a previous chapter, was the pro- 
duct of the brain of Hung Wu (•$ $c) . It proved the most effective 
weapon the founders of the Manchu Dynasty could wield against 
the literary and most influential part of the populace. The 
followers of the Sung philosophers could endure every form of 
oppression provided they were assured of their privilege of taking 
the public examinations. For this reason, the system of literary 
examinations was granted a further lease of life after the passing 
awav of the dynasty Huns: Wu had founded. As soon as a 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



849 



province became pacified the system was restored in that province. 
L,ater on even the Manchns were subjected to this worst intellec- 
tual fetter that man has ever invented. 




I.iterary Examination Hulls 

Honors to Confucius. — Similar reasons led the Manchus to 
bestow honors upon Confucius. In this matter, they did not 
blindly follow the footsteps of the Mings but did something to 
establish the true relationship in which Confucius stands to the 
people. The preceding dynasties had been so went to honor him 
with ail sorts of princely titles that he occupied very much the 
same position as a Chinese gcd. No greater injustice could have 
been done to Confucius. The Emperor Shun Chih undertook to 
give Confucius a title for all ages. He was no longer to be 
known as Wen Hsiian Wang* (X m. i) ; but as the ''Greatest 
Sage," or Chih Sheng (mm), and our "Teacher" (&$%). He 
was not to be worshipped as a god, but honored as our sage and 
teacher. To his family the hereditary title, Yen Sheng Kung 
(iff % <&), or Holy Duke, was secured. 



* A title conferred by the Yuan Iynasty and contim e 1 under the Ming. 



350 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 






The Manchu Provincial Garrisons; The Green Camps. — 

In the matter of provincial government, the Manehus also copied 
the greater part from the Mings. The highest authority in this 
system was the viceroy 
*& ^) ; but, during the 
reign of Shun Chili as 
well as in the days of the 
Mings, his office was 
of a rather temporary 
character. In the more 
important provinces the 
establishment of Manchu 
garrisons under a Tartar General and a number of lesser digni- 
taries, was, of course, an innovation. In such cases, the Tartar 
General, owing to his Manchu blocd, ranked before the viceroy 
of the province. 




A Field riece 




Iron Four-pounder 



my 



The Manchu garrisons at the following points formed an 
outer defence to Peking and were also expected to keep an eye 
on Mongolia. 

Shantung, Ch'ingchow (bNH). 

Honan, Kaifeng (ft] £}). 

Shansi, Kueihua (1Kb $.) . 

Shensi, Sian (M 3c). 

Kansu, Ninghsia (HfK), Liangchow (?&'JH), and a subdivi- 
sion at Tsun I^ang ( M M) . 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 351 

Those at the following places were to hold in submission the 
conquered Chinese. 

Szechuan, Ch'engtu UfeSP). 

Hnpeh, Chingchow (M W). 

Kiangsu, Nanking (ii SC),* with a smaller garrison at Chin- 
kiang (£i K). 

Chekiang, Hangchow (tfc£H), with a smaller garrison at 
Cliapu C£ *§), once a seaport, bnt now silted up. 

Fukien, Foochow (Mffll). 

Kuangtung, Canton (J&- M). 

There were six provinces in which there were no Man- 
chu garrisons. They had the Chinese soldiery of the con- 
quest, or Hanchiin (91 ¥) ; and besides these other Chinese 
soldiers who were organized into the so-called " Green Camps " 
($£&),"?' from the colour of their standard as distinguished from 
the Eight Banners. The Eight Banners moved from province 
to province, but the green camps were generally assigned to 
garrison duty. 

The First Code of Law. — The first cede of law issued by 
the Manclms is dated in the 5th moon of the 3rd year of Shun 
Chili (June, 1641). Apart from the legislation made necessary 
by the intermingling cf Chinese and Manchus, the code was 
chiefly a reproduction of the Ming code. Owing to the differences 
in language and customs, the Chinese and the Manchus were 
placed under different laws and courts. The cruel tortures were 
not the invention of the conquerors. Their earliest code 
sanctioned only two kinds of punishment, viz.: — death and 
flogging. § 



* Its name was changed to Kiangning by Shun Chili. The city was no longer 
a Southern Capital under the Manchus. 

t These consist of the viceroy's command, or Tupiao (^^), the governor's 
command, or Fupiao ($j£ ^), and the general's command, or Tipiao (^ ^). 

§ Introduction to the First Code by Shun Chih. 



352 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



The Imperial Calendar ; Success of the Jesuit Mis- 
sionaries. — The right to issue the calendar in China has been 
part of the imperial prerogative from time immemorial. The 
president of the Astronomical Department (;£fc5£I£) under Shun 
Chili was neither Chinese nor Manchu, but a Jesuit missionary 
named Joannes Adam Schall (^ ^ H). In the first year of Shun 
Chih, a solar eclipse, which took place, bore witness to the 
accuracy of Schall 's calculations and caused his appointment. 
Under the reign of this emperor Jesuit missionaries, owing to 
scientific knowledge, achieved unparallelled success in China. 
They also found a good friend at Nanking in the mother of 
Fu Wang. It is stated that through one of the missionaries she 
sent a letter to the Pope with a view to interesting him in the 
cause of her son. 




Peking Ooservatcry 

Extension of Slavery. — In the conquest of China we have 
a case of slavery following the flag. There were three classes 
of slaves: — 

1. Imperial Gifts (&&). These were mostly prisoners of 
war, and to the captor belonged the captives. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 353 

2. Volunteer Slaves ($&5fc). Coming into China at a time 
when lawlessness was the order of the day, the Manchus found 
thousands of evil-doers ready to enlist themselves as their slaves. 
The badge of slavery conferred upon them a new status which 
gave them a right to prey upon their neighbors, to seize property 
which was not theirs, and to commit other things which they 
could not otherwise have done with impunity. It should not be 
understood that their masters knowingly permitted all sorts of 
lawlessness. It was their lack of a sufficient knowledge of the 
native tongue and customs, rather than their connivance that 
made such things possible. 

3. Slaves by Purchase (MM)- Reduced to the verge of 
famine, there were many fathers and mothers who were willing to 
dispose of their children for a nominal sum of money. Besides 
these, there were persons who had no other means of subsistence, 
and so offered themselves for sale in the slave market. There were 
also kindnappers reaping immense profit from the trade, and in some 
cases their sales were made with the consent of the local authorities, 
the deeds being stamped with official seals. But it was not illegal 
for a Manchu to own slaves on a " white deed," that is deed not 
having been stamped by the officials. In short, slaves could be 
bought or sold in the same manner as ordinary property ; hence the 
terms, " Red Deed '" ($L M) and " White Deed " (&%), were applied 
to slaves as well as real estate. 

In respect to the treatment and position of slaves there w T as 
practically no distinction. All slaves remained in slavery and their 
children in the same social position. It was not until the reign of the 
Emperor Ch'ien Lung that laws were made allowing descendants of 
slaves to redeem themselves, either by the payment of sums of 
money, or by deeds of gallantry on the battle field. 

Slavery, however, was not brought into China by the Manchus. 
It had existed under the previous dynasties, and it had not been 
unusual for a high official of the Ming Dynasty to own hundreds of 
slaves. The last emperor of the Ming Dynasty, Ch'ung Cheng, even 



354 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

requested his ministers to train their slaves to defend the capital 
against the rebels. After the overthrow of the dynasty, thousands 
of these slaves seized the opportunity for plunder and revenge, and 
undoubtedly many of them became the " volunteer slaves " of the 
Manchus. 

The Fugitive Slave Law.— No law was more severe than 
the fugitive slave law, and any one who harbored such a slave was 
liable to have his head chopped off and his neighbors banished. 
Even the local officials were not exempt from blame. It is needless 
to say that such a law often worked undue hardship on persons who 
v\ ere not at all guilty. 

The Manchu Homesteads.— The greatest question that 
presented itself to the new government was how to provide homes 
for the numerous Manchus. The order from the Throne concerning 
this matter said that "all lands around Peking found without 
owners " should be reserved as homesteads ((H ifi) for the Manchus. 
Xo one at the present day (1913) is able to say how much of the 
land so reserved was really " found without owners." An Imperial 
Decree, dated the 8th year of Shun Chili, throws considerable light 
upon the subject, and we shall let it speak for itself: " It has come 
to our knowledge that lands belonging to the people have been 
seized at various places and reserved for hunting grounds, or for 
camps. Granting that the end in view is to carry out frequent 
military reviews and maneuvers, it should be remarked that the 
ancients only practiced things of this nature when they could be 
done without interference with the agricultural pursuits of the 
people. But in the present case, lands which should have been 
under cultivation have been seized, so that the only means by which 
the people can hope to feed and clothe themselves have been taken 
away from them. This condition of things has grieved Us to a 
great extent. Let your department,* therefore, take steps to restore 
to their rightful owners the reserves, hitherto taken from the 
Chinebe, that they may cultivate the same before the season ends." 



* The Decree was addressed to the Board of Revenue. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 35S 

Besides the homesteads granted by the government, it was not 
unusual during those early days for a " volunteer slave " to give up 
his title to land in favor of his master. In so doing, he had every 
thing to gain and nothing to lose. In the first place, as a president 
of the Censorate in the 12th year of Shun Chili pointed out, the land 
did not belong to him but to his neighbor ; in the second place, land 
registered in the name of his master paid no government taxes ; 
and. in the third place, he had every hope of being appointed a 
Chuang T'ou (& gg) or homestead keeper, when he would be able to 
rent the same land to tenants at a profit to himself. Few Manchus 
ever tilled their lands themselves. 

The Pension System and Its Effect. —Perhaps no govern- 
ment was even more generous to her soldiers than the Manchu 
Dynasty. After the conquest of China, there was a law which 
secured to each bannerman rations according to his rank. The 
intention of the Government was that every bannerman should be 
brought up to be as fine a soldier as his fathers had been. The 
allowance given during those early days was undoubtedly ample for 
the needs of a Manchu. Surrounded by a number of slaves ready 
to do his bidding, and with a large revenue from his homestead, 
every Manchu was his own lord, and spent his time in rearing 
falcons or other pet birds, in frequenting theatres, or in patronizing 
public bars and restaurants. His "Master (^ =£)," the Emperor, 
finally found it necessary to make laws preventing his going upon 
the stage, — a calling that was always looked down upon in China. — 
and making the excessive use of liquor a crime. It was also found 
advisable to place restrictions upon his movements, but the effect was 
just the reverse of what had been expected. Instead of a nation 
in arms, there was an enormous army of idlers. As a whole the 
Manchu element in China was poorer than the Chinese ; and this 
was especially true during their last days in power. 

The Manchu Nobility.— The Imperial Nobility consisted of 
twelve degrees ; four were Princes ; four, Imperial Dukes ; and 
four, Commanders. Unless a title was conferred with " the right 
of inheritance for ever" (1ft M ffl &), all the above honors were to be 



356 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

handed down in a diminished degree ; the son of a prince of the 
first order became a prince of the second order, and so on, until 
the 12th degree was succeeded by a " Commander by Grace" (^ JR 
tUF^). This title permitting no further diminution was then 
secured to the family forever, unless taken away for misconduct. 
To the families of the eight princes who took part in the conquest 
of China, the right of perpetual inheritance was secured, hence the 
term "the Iron Crown Princes" (& 1H =F 3i) . Untitled Imperial 
Clansmen, if they were able to trace their descent from Hsien Tsu 
(ISM), were permitted to wear the yellow girdle ; and, if from one 
of his brothers, they could wear the red girdle. A "Yellow Girdle" 
CH^sr?) clansman, when degraded, became a " Red Girdle" (tL^^f) 
clansman. Titles of Imperial Nobility were often conferred on 
Mongol Khans, but never on Chinese after y\fu San-kuei. 

Admission of Chinese into the Banner Organization. — 

During the early days of the dynasty the right to become a banner- 
man was granted for distinguished services. Of this class of 
bannermen, the most prominent were Wu San-kuei and Kung 
Yu-te. Even Sun K'o-wang (^pJH), after his surrender, Avas 
made a duke and admitted into banner citizenship. The same 
honor was also extended to Wang Wu (^ fg),* an( l a ^ ew others. 

Smallpox. — When the Manchus first entered China, the 
disease they dreaded most was smallpox. Many times, the 
Emperor Shun Chili held no audiences because of the outbreak of 
this disease; and once, when it threatened to become epidemic, all 
infected persons were removed from the city by imperial com- 
mand. It is stated that during the panic hundreds of persons 
suffering from non-contagious skin diseases were forcibly taken 
away from their homes and sent into the " wilderness." 

The Shaving of the Head; the Queue. — Before closing 
the first part of our narrative, we must mention the most con- 
spicuous change imposed on China by the Manchus. A people 
gifted with less strength of will might never have attempted to 



* Duke of Haich'Sng ($$ •}?£ fe). 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 357 

require the Chinese to wear a queue, and to shave the head as a sign 
of submission. This requirement undoubtedly had a good deal to do 
with the stubborn resistance the Manchus met with in the South. 
The name of Confucius even would not excuse his descendants 
from complying with the law. It is a matter of regret that the 
same strong hand that forced the shaving of the head was not 
applied to the rooting out of many glaring evils, such as the 
employment of eunuchs, footbinding, literary examinations, 
drowning of girls*, and the thousand and one other evils of China. 
In a land like China, where there is such a variety of people, and 
where the art of deceit has been taught, fostered, and honored by 
the teachings of the Sung philosophers, a strong government is al- , 
ways a necessity. A strong government does not necessarily mean -^ 
absolutism. It means a government that is able to enforce its 
laws. Lawlessness and freedom are two entirely different things ; 
and no nation can long continue to exist unless its people can 
distinguish the one from the other. No government has any 
excuse for being unless it can help the people so to distinguish 
them. The Manchus owed their success to a strong government 
as much as to an invincible army. 



fc. £>' 



^Towards the close of the reign of Shun Chili several edicts were issued 
prohibiting this practice, but were insufficient to root out the evil. 



358 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

SECOND PERIOD: — THE ERA OF GREATNESS 
(1662 — 1796) 

CHAPTER XL 

THE SAN FAN REBELLION 

Death of Shun Chih; Accession of K'ang Hsi. — Shun Chih 

died in 1661. Seventeen years before when he was crowned in 
Mukden, his " Empire " was bounded on the southwest by Ning- 
yftan (& M.) and Shanhaikuan (Oi ?# H). Thanks to the energy and 
loyalty of his uncle, the Prince Regent, when Shun Chih died, at the 
age of twenty- four, he was the Kubla Khan* of the Manchus, and 
the acknowledged head of China as well as Manchuria. He had 
ruled in his own name since 1651, the year after the death of his 
uncle. t The death of Shun Chih brought his third son, a lad of eight, 
to the throne. This boy-emperor, who reigned under the name of 
K'angHsi (M Sft), lived to be one of the greatest emperors China ever 
had. For a time the government was conducted in his name by 
four guardians or regents; but like his father, he took the reins of 
government in his own hands at the age of fourteen. With his 
accession, we are about to enter on the golden period of the Manchu 
Dynasty. If fear and good fortune had guarded the throne of Shun 
Chih, love and reverence now secured it to K'ang Hsi. 

The San Fan Rehellion.— The reign of K'ang Hsi opened 
with a formidable rebellion, which finally spread through eleven of 
the Eighteen Provinces, and required eight years for its suppression. 
This rebellion is commonly known as the San Fan Rebellion, or the 
war with the Second Three Princes (&H $££&), to distinguish it from 
the war of the First Three Princes. In the earlier struggle, it was 
resistance to the planting of the Eight Banners in China ; but in the 



* The temple name of the Emperor Shun Chih is Shih Tsu (•{£ fl). the same 
as that of Kubla Khan. 

t The Prince Regent died in 1650 at the age of 39. Shun Chih began to rule 
in his own name the following year. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 359 

present case, it was an armed contest between the Chinese and 
Manchus for the ownership of China. The revolt was in fact led by 
the very Chinese who had put the Manchus in possession of their 
empire. 

The Principal Leaders of the Revolt.— Wit San-kuei 
(^Hi) (Prince of Ping Hsi 2 !*®), Keng Ching-chung (& ^ A) 
( Prince of Ching Nan if il), and Shang Chih-hsin (ffi Z in) (Prince 
of Ping Nan (¥ ii) were the principal leaders of the revolt; the last 
two were the grandson and son, respectively, of Keng Chung-ming 
(SMt M) and Shang K'o-hsi (ffi pj H). At one time there were four 
Chinese princes under the Manchus ; but, owing to the extinction of 
the house of Kung Yu-te, there were only three in the time of K'ang 
Hsi. According to the law, daughters could not inherit titles of 
nobility from their fathers, hence Princess Kung Ssu-chen, the only 
surviving child of Kung Yu-te, received no part of her father's 
estate. * 

In time she was married to Sun Yen-ling (MMU), who sub- 
sequently became the " Tartar General,""! or Chiang Chiin (W ^), 
of Kuangsi, a position which he owed entirely to his matrimonial 
alliance with the family of Kung Yu-te. Thus at the time of 
the accession of K'ang Hsi, there was one Chinese prince in Yunnan, 
one in Kuangtung, and one in Fukien, while a Chinese Tartar 
General in Kuangsi exercised the powers of a prince. 

Power of Wu San-kuei.— Of all the princes Wu San-kuei 
was by far the most powerful, as he had received the lion's share of 
the credit for the conquest of China. The viceroy of Yttn-kuei 
i HH A ^ and the governors of each province were all subject to 
his orders. In the matter of making appointments, he w T as virtually 
independent of the Boards in Peking. Civil and military officers 



* A daughter of an Imperial Prince of the second degree (^ $£ %$ ]£) is 
Hsien Chu (#$ ±) ; of the third degree (^i|f), Chiin Chiin (JR %) ; of the 
fourth degree (j| =£), Hsien Chiin (|f ; ;f») ; and of an Imperial Duke of the hrst 
or second degree, Hsiang Chiin ($pR %*) ; Colloquially, all of them are Ko Ko 

^ $), from a Manchu word. The daughters of Imperial nobles in the lower 
ranks are designated as Tsung Xu (f£ ic). 

• Sun was not a Tartar himself. 



360 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

receiving appointments from him were designated Hsi Hsiian (B *t) 
(selected by the Prince of the West), and they held posts throughout 
China. In financial matters, he was free from any restraint or direc- 
tion from the Board of Revenue. He took up his abode in the old 
palace of Kuei Wang at Wu Hua Shan (BjPOj), Yunnanfu, where 
he rivalled K'ang Hsi in splendor and greatness. His private property 
consisted 70,000 mow of land; and the revenue from the mines and 
the receipts from the salt gabelle within his district all went to him, 
instead of to the government at Peking. Thousands of Mongolian 
and Tibetan ponies were brought into Yunnan every year in exchange 
for tea, cloth, and other commodities required by the Mongols and 
Tibetans. His friends and proteges controlled all the important 
routes leading into his district; and with a son, the husband of an 
imperial princess, resident at the Court in Peking, he kept in touch 
with everything that passed in the Capital and in the Imperial Palace- 
In military strength, he had 53 Tso Ling (fe SI), or 10,600 Han 
Chun (m ¥) soldiers, 12,000 "Green Camps," and numerous 
auxiliaries. To feed this army and those of the Princes Ching Xan 
and Ping Nan, cost the government " upwards of Tls. 20,000,000 a 
year." 

The Question of Disbandment. — Matters came to a crisis in 
the year 1673. In the earlier part of that year an application for 
retirement was received at Peking from Shang K'o-hsi, the aged 
Prince of Ping Nan living in Canton. He had been for years a 
prisoner in the hands of his own son, Chih-hsin (Z If), a drunken 
and undutiful wretch. Thinking that foul play might some day 
be used, he decided that the best way to get out of the trouble was 
to return to Liaotung, and leave his son at Canton; hence his 
application. The application was received with joy at Peking, as 
it gave the young Emperor an opportunity to display his energetic 
character. He replied to the application with an order that the 
prince should disband all his soldiers, and then return with his 
sons, other members of his family, and slaves to Liaotung (31^). 
This order was a surprise not only to Shang K'o-hsi but also to 
Wu San-kuei and Keng Ching-chung as well. The latter both 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 301 

thought that policy and courtesy required them to make a similar 
application, and by so doing they found out what greater surprise 
there was in store for them. K'ang Hsi treated their applications in 
the same manner and answered them with the same kind of order. 
Indeed many of K'ang Hsi's ministers questioned the wisdom of 
his action ; but he was firm. Young as he was, he was a well-read 
man for his day, and knew the evil of feudalism and what 
unrestrained power in the hands of feudal lords had meant to the 
previous dynasties. 

First Act of Rebellion. — The hope of Wu San-kuei was now 
completely thwarted. For all the services he had rendered, first 
in letting the Manchus into the formidable Pass of Shanhai- 
kuan, and then in extending their authority gradually throughout 
the provinces of Shansi, Sheusi, Szechuan, and Yunnan, he was 
to be returned to Liaotung, not to enjoy rest and grandeur, but 
to die like the humblest Manchu. He owed the Manchus nothing ; 
but they owed him everything. If they did not appreciate his 
friendship, he could as yet prove the worst enemy they could have. 
On November 21, 1673, Wu San-kuei caused the governor of 
Yunnan to be murdered ; and having committed the first act of 
rebellion, he openly unfurled the standard of revolt and conferred 
upon himself the title of " Commander-in-Chief of the Chinese 
Empire " Ot T U $ It & ,!f *7t fl*).* He ceased to shave his 
head, and " caused it to be spread far and wide " that the Chow 
(^) Dynasty had been revived. The provincial commander of 
Yiinnan (18 M i& *&) , the governor, and the commander of Kuei- 
chow, all gave him aid. The Viceroy of Yiinnan, who refused to do 
so, was chased from Kueiyaug to Chen Yuan (HSI), where be was 
killed. But news of the rebellion found the youthful Emperor by 
no means unprepared for the sudden turn of affairs. He absolutely 
refused to punish " the disbandment advocates" (M M W M W EL), 
deprived Wu San-kuei of his honors, threw all his relatives 
found in Peking into prison, including Ying Hsiung (MM), the 



•San-kuei alone possessed the title of Ch'in Wang (HEE), or Imperial Prince 
of the first degree. 



362 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

husband of the imperial princess, strengthened the garrisons of 
Chingchow (#JjN'l), Changte (*«), and Chengtu Ofc»), and 
sent two armies to the scene of rebellion, one by way of Hukuang 
and the other by way of Shensi and Szechuan. 

The First Year of the Rebellion.— (December 1673- 
December 1674.) After having subjected the two provinces of 
Yun-kuei to his authority, Wu San-kuei sent General Wang 
Ping-fan (EE & M) into Szechuan, and Ma Pao (JS gf) into Hunan. 
The governor of the latter province deserted his post and fled, 
with the result that inside of three months, Changte (^t§), 
Changsha (g $>), Yochow (•£ £H), Iyichow (?g W), and Hengchow 
($r W), five of the fourteen prefectures* in Hunan, were taken by 
the rebels. While the rebellion was making progress in the 
region south of the Tung Ting L,ake (M M 3$) , good tidings came 
to Wu San-kuei from other directions. The Governor of Sze- 
chuan, the Chiang Chun (#f ¥) of Kuangsi, the Brigadier-General 
of Hsiang-yang (|f), and the Prince of Chen Nan in Fukien, had 
all responded favorably to his call, by raising the standard of 
rebellion in their respective districts. Wu San-kuei himself came 
forward into Hunan but gave orders that none of his soldiers 
should march beyond the Yangtze. He thought that his prelimi- 
nary success might cause K'ang Hsi to cede to him all the 
territory south of that river. As a matter of fact, he had caused 
a suggestion to that effect to be sent to Peking through the Dalai 
Uma. As he was now an old man and his thoughts were with his 
family, he did not wish to jeopardize the lives of those who were 
dear to him. In his younger days he had suffered his father, 
mother, and other relatives, to be cruelly put to death for his own 
sake ; but was now unwilling to cause the execution of his son and 
grandson, while he himself was nearing his own grave. He had, 
however, underestimated the character of the great Emperor. 
Although K'ang Hsi was scarcely twenty years old, he was a man 
of determination, and must have an undivided China, or none. 



*Five of these were Departmental Districts or Chihlichow(j£ ffj ^|), 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY £63 

The only reply Wit San-kuei received frcm him was the 
execution of his son and grandson. The struggle must be 
renewed. With a sad heart, Wu San-kuei sent one division from 
Changsha to invade Kiangsi, and another to invade Shensi by 
way of Szechuan. He did not want to go to Chingchow where 
the Manchus were awaiting with a very strong force. 

The Effect of the Rebellion in Shen-Kan — Towards the 
close of 1673, Warha (X M h£), the Tartar General of Sian, had 
been ordered to inarch into Szechuan with the Manchu garrison in 
order to check the possible advance of the rebels in that direction. 
He was to be followed by General Mo Lo (^&), a Manchu Grand 
Secretary, and one of the " Disbandment Party," who was in 
command of the " Green Camps ; " and Prince Tung-o (M W), in 
command of the Manchu cavalry. Warha found General Wang- 
Ping- fan no mean enemy ; and was obliged to act mainly on the 
defensive in North Szechuan, where the enemy busied himself in 
threatening his communications and supplies. The situation looked 
so doubtful that Wang Fu-ch'en (3E II EL), the provincial Commander 
of Shensi, began to doubt the wisdom of remaining any longer on 
the side of the Manchus. In December, 1674, a mutiny of all the 
" Green Camp " soldiers under him took place at the city of Ning 
Chiang ($ ^), on the Shensi-Szechuan border, and General Mo Lo 
became their first victim. Prince Tung-o, with the Manchu cavalry, 
could easily have hunted down the mutineers ; but he chose to 
remain in Sian, and thus gave them and their commander an 
opportunity to go into the province of Kansu, which was soon 
lost to the Manchu cause. On hearing of the state of things 
in Shen-Kan, Wu San-kuei promptly sent Fu-ch'en Tls. 200,000, 
which induced the former commander of Shensi to side with him. 
He also saw that by making an alliance with the mutineers, he 
could march from Shensi to Peking. W T ith this end in view, he 
sailed with his fleet up the Yangtze to Sungtzu (*& M), leaving 
70,000 men to hold Yochow and Lichow, so as to check the 
advance of the Imperial troops from Chingchow. He left an equal 
number of men to guard the cities of Pinghsiang (WM),Li\ing 



364 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

(SI EH), and Changsha (^$>), so as to secure his rear from the 
attacks that might come from the direction of Kiangsi, where 
Prince An (5Jc $1 5E) had been appointed to the chief command. 

In 1675 Prince Tung-o was superseded by Grand Secretary 
Tuhai (IH#). With the coming of fresh soldiers from Peking, the 
situation in Shen-Kan was changed. By a pitched battle fought 
north of P'ing Liang (3 s SO, the strength of Wang Fu-ch'en 
was completely destroyed and Kansu was restored. In June, Wang 
Fu-ch'en returned to his former allegiance, and in the same month 
Wang Ping- fan was driven to Han Chung Fu ($g #). 

Attack on Changsha. — Meanwhile the absence of Wu San- 
ktiei from Hunan had given Prince An in Kiangsi courage to 
assume the offensive. Notwithstanding its outer defenses, Chang- 
sha was reached and attacked, and Wu San-kuei had to beat a 
hasty retreat from Sungtzu. He ordered his men on the Hunan- 
Hupei border to come to the rescue of Changsha, and thereby 
liberated the soldiers of Chingchow, who, for the first time, ventured 
south of the river. But upon the appearance of the fleet from 
Sungtzu, they withdrew into the city again. Then Wu San-kuei 
immediately directed his general, Kao Ta-chieh (iti ;*: fj! ) , to attack 
Chian (^f 3c) in Kiangsi so as to threaten the retreat of Prince 
An. All hope of crushing the rebellion in Hunan was therefore 
gone upon the return of Wu San-kuei to that province. 

The Progress and Termination of the Rebellion in Fu- 
kien. — During the years of 1674-5, the situation in Fukien was no 
less threatening. Three different armies had been organized by 
Keng Ching-chung and were sent to operate in as many different 
directions. One army under General Ts'eng Yang-hsing (If ^ t£) 
marched into Chekiang and occupied Wenchow and T'aichow ; 
another under General Pai Hsien-chung (&SS1&), into Kiangsi, 
and occupied Kuang Hsin (jgf fg), Chien Ch'ang (Jg H), and Jao 
Chow (li ')]]) ; and a third under General Ma Chiu-yu (,I A3E), 
taking the route through the Hsien Hsia Ling, (till H^), took Ch'ii- 
chow (HE 0fl) and Chinhua (& ip) in Western Chekiang. The fact 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 365 

that two imperial princes were appointed to commands in Chekiang 
shows the gravity of the situation. For a year and a half, they 
were able to report no progress. In the South, Keng Ching-chung, 
supported by a powerful fleet under Cheng Chin (§R£6), Koxinga's 
son. also threw an army into Kuangtung. 

Keng Ching-chung's disagreement with his ally, Cheng Chin, 
however, was the turning point in the war. He had promised to 
cede to the latter some territory on the mainland but failed to make 
good his word. Enraged by the bad faith of his ally, Cheng Chin 
helped himself to the places he wanted and wrested from him the 
Prefectures of Changchow (jtEiW), Clmanchow (& jtl), T'ingchow 
(iTJH), and Shaowu (#&$;). This happened in 1676. Taking 
advantage of the fact that the rebels were under the necessity of 
sending away part of their force to defend their homes, the imperial 
troops in Chekiang and Kiangsi, by a series of battles, drove them 
back into Fukien. When the Imperialists arrived at Yenp'ing (2£ 2 P), 
Keng Ching-chung, realizing his own hopeless position, gave 
them the seal of office and other insignia of authority that he 
had received from Wu San-kuei, and asked for an opportunity "to 
redeem his guilt by joining the army to drive out the pirates." His 
request was granted. The "pirates" were in the following year 
made to vacate all the cities on the mainland, and to retire into 
Amoy. 

The Rebellion of Kuangtung; Death of Shang K'o-hsi. — 

In spite of all Wu San-kuei's efforts to win his old comrade to 
his cause, Prince Shang K'o-hsi* remained loyal to the govern- 
ment. A hostile army was inarching from Fukien into his 
domains, a fleet was threatening the coast of Kuangtung, and 
another army under orders of Wu San-kuei was coming from 
the direction of Kuangsi (1675). Still he did not change his 
mind ; but he was powerless to restrain his son, Chih-hsin, and 



*He forwarded all the letters that Wu San-kuei had written him to Peking^ 
The emperor was so pleased with him that he conferred on him aiso the title of 
Chin? Wan?. 



366 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Chin Kuang-tsu (&3fcM), Viceroy at Canton. These both de- 
clared themselves in favor of the cause of Wu San-kuei, and 
Kuangtung cast in its lot with the rebels. Shang K'o-hsi did not 
live much longer. After the final restoration of peace, his coffin 
was opened, and it was discovered that he died a Manchu subject 
and was dressed in their attire. 

Chih-hsin and Chin Kuang-tsu soon had cause to regret 
what they had done. The former was required to supply Wu 
San-kuei with money ; and the latter was not even assured of his 
position. In 1677 when the Imperialists flooded Kuangtung 
by way of Fukien and Kiangsi, Chih-hsin surrendered. Of the 
three centres of rebellion, Kuangtung was the weakest point, and 
there was not much blood shed on its soil. 

Death of Wu San-kwei. — The year 1678 found Wu San- 
kuei shorn of the provinces of Shensi and Kansu in the north- 
west, and Fukien and Kuangtung in the southeast. Nor could 
he count upon much help from Kuangsi, where a new foe had 
arisen in the person of one Fu Hung-lieh (if % $1).* Wu Shih- 
ts'ung (^-ffi:^), whom he had sent there to take the place of 
Sun Yen-ling (MMffl*)^ murdered in 1676 for his duplicity, was 
constantly losing ground. In Kiangsi, through dissensions 
among the rebel generals, the strategic city of Chian, taken by 
Kao Ta-chieh, had been lost. But Wu San-kuei did not despair. 
In March, 1678, he assumed the imperial title, adopted Chao Wu 
(flg jfc) as the name under which he reigned and made Hengchow 
his capital. Fortune, however, was against him. Death overtook 
him on August 17, 1678, when he was on the point of carrying 



* Fu pretended to be friendly to Wu San-kuei ; but, when his plans 
matured, led the Imperial troops to invade Kuangsi. 

f Kung Si-cheng never approved the conduct of her hushand. Owing to her 
influence, he was planning to return to his allegiance to the emperor, when he was 
murdered by an agent of Wu San-kuei. She was spared her life and taken into 
Yiinnan, but, after its fall in 1681, she was conveyed to Peking, where she soon 
died. Wu San-kuei had adopted her as his daughter and to this fact she owed 
her life. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 3(37 

the city of Yung Hsing (4c M) by storm. This deprived the reb- 
els of a mind capable of directing affairs at so critical a moment. 
His so-called throne was occupied by his second grandson, Wu 
Shih-fan (^ ftf j§) , but there was no one to take the vacant place 
at the head of the army. 

End of the Rebellion. —After the death of Wu San-kuei, 
the imperial commanders, who had hitherto been obliged to act 
mainly on the defensive, prosecuted the war with new vigor and 
success. They were triumphant wherever they went. The rebels 
in Hunan, Szechuan, and Kuangsi either lost their lives in a 
hopeless attempt to resist, or found safety in flight. The province 
of Kueichow was invaded in 1680 by three different armies ; one 
under General Chang T'ai (f^^) (Manchu)* came from Hunan ; 
another under General Lai T'a ($1 ig) (also Manchu), from 
Xanning C&m); and the third under General Chao Liang-tung 
(&&.W (Chinese), from Szechuan. From Kueiyang, Wu 
Shih-fan, the successor of Wu San-kuei, was chased into 
Yunnan, where for eight months he made a desperate effort to 
hold the citadel around Wu Hna Shan ; and, upon its fall in 
October, 1681, committed suicide. The penalties were visited 
upon all the provinces where the cries of rebellion had been 
heard, and none of those who had taken a part in it escaped. 
Keng Ching-chung met his death by Lingchi (the so-called 
" lingering death ") , and Shang Chih-hsing by strangling. These 
were both executed in 1680. 

The credit for the successful termination of the rebellion 
was mainly due to the Emperor himself. It was his deter- 
mination, tact, and generalship that made success possible. 
When the best of Manchu soldiers were losing heart, he twice 
offered to lead them in person. Although circumstances never 
made it really necessary for him to take the field, yet the whole 
campaign from beginning to end was conducted from Peking. 



* The successor of Prince An, who in the previous year was ordered to 
Peking with the major portion of his Manchu force. 



368 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Where his instructions were minutely followed, success was the 
result ; but where they were neglected, the commanders barely 
escaped from the battle-field with their lives. At the outset, it 
looked as if no Chinese were strong enough to resist the tempta- 
tion to rebel ; but towards the close, Chinese figured no less 
prominently than Manchus in the work of restoration. Especially 
prominent were such Chinese as Viceroy I^i Chih-fang (^ Z. %) , 
of Chekiang, Governor Fu Hung-lieh, of Kiangsi, and Generals 
Chang Yung (36 H), Chao Liang-tung (S&K80, Wang Chin-pao 
(3E *£S), and Sun Ssu-k'o (U ,© ^), of Shensi. Those who were 
to operate in Chekiang and Fukien had Nanking and Kiangsi for 
their bases; those who went into Szechuan relied on Sian and 
Shan si ; and those who fought in Hunan depended on Anking 

Financing the War. — The greatest problem was how to 
provide funds for the war, and for a short time, the sale of official 
ranks and positions was resorted to in order to raise the needed 
money.* In spite of this and other similar drastic measures, it 
was found necessary after the restoration of peace to pay the 
personal debts contracted by the Manchu soldiers during the war 
to the amount of Tls. 5,600,000. The total number of Imperial 
soldiers employed in the provinces during the war reached the 
high-water mark of 400,000. 

The rebels experienced much greater difficulty in this 
respect, and lack of funds was, in a large measure, responsible 
for their failure. 

The System of Check and Balance.— After the rebellion, a 
most complicated system of check and balance was introduced in 
the provinces. Military authorities were made dependent upon 
their civil colleagues for pay, and the financial agents were denied 
any connection with the provincial armies or u Green Camps." 
Nominally, the viceroy headed the list of civil and military 
authorities in his district, which was either one or two 

*For three years only. Total amount realized Tls. 2,000,000. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 369 

provinces ; but his supervisory powers were matters of statutory 
provision. In many respects, these powers were shared by the 
governor, or governors, associated with him. He was not their 
superior but rather their senior colleague. In cities where there 
was a Manchu garrison, the situation was further complicated by 
the presence of the Tartar General. In short, there was no one- 
man power in the provinces. That is, no one person possessed 
sufficient authority over the army, the finances, and the civil 
authorities, to enable him to use them against the central 
government. Besides, no man could hold his position beyond 
the tenure of office ordained by law. When that time was up, 
the official, or officer in question, had to memorialize the Throne 
and ask for permission to present himself for an audience at 
Peking; and the matter of his continuation in office depended 
entirely upon the pleasure of the Emperor. The titles of 
Chinese nobility were nine, ranging from that of Duke to that 
of En-Ch'i-Wei (&$$ M) \ none of them carrying with it a fief, or 
the right to keep soldiers. 

Instead of being weakened in any way, the Manchus emerged 
from the San Fan Rebellion stronger than ever. The transplant- 
ed dynasty from Mukden had begun to take root in China. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 






CHAPTER XLI 
ANNEXATION OF FORMOSA 

Raids of Cheng Ching; Loss of Amoy and Quemoy.— We 

have seen how Koxinga came into possession of Formosa, how his 
son and successor, Cheng Ching, became the ally of Keng Ching- 
chung (& *n J£0 , and how their subsequent rupture led to the 
former's expulsion from the mainland of Fukien . Cheng Ching was 
still in possession of Amoy and Quemoy on the coast of Fukien, 
with his home in Formosa protected by the Pescadores. Like his 
father he was undaunted by his adverse fortune. In 1679, that is 
two years after his expulsion from Fukien, he took the town of 
Haich'eng (tfc 8£) , and laid siege simultaneously to the cities of 
Changchow ($t £H) and Cliuanchow (&W), the old homes of his 
men. So long as the Imperialists had no fleet to co-operate with 
their land forces, they were placed at a disadvantage. With great 
difficulty, they drove Cheng Chiug's men from the walls of Chang- 
chow and Chiianchow; but failed to dislodge them from the town 
of Haich'eng, a place within easy reach of the sea. 

In the beginning of the next year things tcok a turn for 
the better. The Imperialists not only had a fleet, but one that 
had had some experience in naval warfare in Hunan. It was a 
fleet of some 200 wooden ships, which, after a lcng journey down 
the Yangtze and along the coast of Chekiang and Upper Fukien, 
arrived in the waters of Amoy in April, 1680, and proceeded at 
once to blockade Haich'eng. Neither Haich'eng on the mainland 
nor the islands of Amoy and Quemoy on the coast could hold 
out long, and one by one they were abandoned by Cheng Ching, 
who, gathering up the remnant of his fleet and army, retired to 
Formosa, leaving Liu Kuo-hsien (W\ M $F), an able lieutenant of 
his, to defend the Pescadores. 

Terms of Peace Offered by the Manchus.— " Formosa has 
formed no part of China, and might have remained undeveloped, 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 371 

but for the efforts of your father and yourself. Why should our 
Government not leave alone a tiny spot in the ocean for the home of 
a man, who is a Tien Heng (W #0. Although he was in sympathy 
with the fallen dynasty, yet he has committed no crime against us, as 
Wu San-kuei has done." With these sentences, the Manchu General 
in command of the Fukien garrison opened a communication to 
Cheng Ching ; and his words summed up the whole position thai the 
Peking Government proposed to take in regard to Formosa. In the 
same communication, he went on to assure Cheng Ching that no hard 
exaction would be imposed if he would only lay clown his arms and 
promise not to trouble the authorities on the coast. Again this 
remarkable document says, " You need neither shave your head, nor 
change your attire. If you choose to submit to us and pay tribute, 
well and good; but if you prefer not to do so, it will make no dif- 
ference whatsoever. We shall consider Formosa in the same light 
as Chi Tzu's Corea (£ * £ IB »), or Hsu Fu's Japan (ffe U Z U #). 
You can do no harm to any one, and therefore there should be no 
need of further fighting. Now let us terminate, once for all, the long 
series of miseries to which the inhabitants along the coast have been 
subjected. Please think over the matter seriously. " Such easy 
terms, proposed by so high an authority as the Manchu commander 
of the province, were of course acceptable. But Cheng Ching wanted 
to have the right of trade at Haich'eng. In order to agree to this 
proposal, the consent of the Viceroy of Fukien had to be obtained. 
This official was not a Manchu, but a Chinese, and he objected. The 
Manchus, as a rule, were poor sailors, and dreaded an issue that had 
to be decided on water. But Yao Ch'i-sheng (#&^lg-\ for such was 
the name of the viceroy, knew that among the men under his com- 
mand there were hue sailors who were equal to the task that was 
expected of them. His objection therefore carried the day. 

Death of Cheng Ching. — As if to simplify the work of con- 
quest, Cheng Ching, who had previously escaped unhurt the numerous 
attempts on his life made at the instance of Yao Ch'i-sheng, died the 
year after his return to Formosa, and left the island in weak hands. 
Unfortunately for him and the house he represented, K'o Chang 



372 OUTLIKES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

C£jS|), his eldest son, the only man fit to assume the direction of 
affairs in Formosa, was the sen of a slave woman. That fact 
alone would have been sufficient to bar him ircm the place made 
vacant by the death of his father, even if he had made no enemies 
by his own first rule during his regency. These enemies of his 
would be satisfied with nothing short of his deaih. K'o Chang was 
accordingly made away with in secret in order io make room for his 
younger brother, K'o Shuang (3£#|>, who now became Cheng 
Ching's successor. Feng Hsi-fan 0%%%&), through whose in- 
strumentality K'o Shuang gained the throne, usurped all power of 
government ; so that the popular confidence in the house of Koxinga 
was entirely gone. 

Attack on the Pescadores ; Surrender of K'o Shuang. — 
Viceroy Yco, always en the alert and always anxious to add 
Formosa to the Maiichu Empire, was not slow to seize the 
opportunity. He saw that his object was now within easy reach 
and entrusted the execution of his plans to Admiral Shih Lang 
(j&JJD, whom jealousy and injustice had recently expelled from 
Formosa. For some time the viceroy had tried to secure the Dutch 
as an ally, but their ships failed to arrive at the appointee! time. A 
Chinese fleet of 300 ships with twenty thousand men on board,, 
therefore, sailed alone from Amoy in 1683, anel made for the 
Pescadores. Upon arrival, Shih Lang found his adversary. Liu 
Kuo-hsien, had made the islands well-nigh impregnable by 
fortifications and ships. For seven days and nights, a battle 
raged furiously, and terminated in the complete defeat of Liu Kuo- 
hsien, who had to seek safety in flight. This was the first and 
last fight Shih Lang had. 

With the Pescadores in the hands cf a hostile fleet, the hopeless- 
ness of Formosa was complete. Owing to the low tide, Shih Lang 
was unable to bring his ships close to land for twelve days ; but on 
the thirteenth day an unusually high tide came to his assistance. 
A similar event hael taken place when Koxinga made his descent 
upon Formosa, and drove out the Dutch. As that event was. 
then regarded as an omen that Koxinga was to have Formosa, so 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY S73 

its recurrence now was accepted as evidence that fortune had 
deserted his house. At any rate, K'o Shuaug surrendered 
without resistance on Aug. 16, 1683, and handed over to Shih Lang- 
all seals as well as other insignia of authority that he or his 
fath r had had received from Kuei Wang. With his surrender, 
the independence of Formosa, after an existence of twenty-three 
years, came to an end. K'o Shuaug was subsequently conveyed 
to Peking, where he was given the rank of a Duke and admitted 
into Banner citizenship; but Shih Lang, the Conqueror of For- 
mosa, was rewarded with only a Marquisate. 

The Government of Formosa. — What should the Govern- 
ment now do with Formosa, an island which had never appeared on 
the map of China? To the scholars and men of letters who made 
up the council of K'ang Hsi, the thought of holding such an island 
was, of course, foreign; and they did not hesitate to recommend its 
abandonment, although they insisted upon holding the Pescadores. 
But Shih Lang, the sailor and soldier, knew better. There was 
absolutely no reason why China should abandon this fine island 
to pirates, or even to the Dutch, so as to put them in a position to 
threaten the peace of Fukien and its neighboring provinces. 
His counsel prevailed at last, and Formosa was made a part of 
Fukien, with one prefecture and three districts, and ruled by 
officials sent over from the mainland. This form of government 
marked the beginning of a new era in the history of Formosa. 
The area that was thus brought under Chinese control was still 
very small as compared with the land occupied by the aborigines, 
or Sheng-Fan (£#), a branch of the Malay race. Moreover, the 
small percentage of Chinese population there was by no means 
made up of desirable colonists ; and, owing to the channel that 
separates Formosa from the mainland, a great obstacle to the 
people of those days, the magistrates, as a rule, could do what 
they pleased. As a consequence, Formosa was nothing but a 
place of misgovernment, and a scene of the darkest crimes. The 
quarrels between the Chinese and the aborigines often ended in 
bloodshed and loss of property, and riots were very frequent. 



374 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

The disturbances or uprisings, numerous and serious as they were, 
were but local in character, and caused by the misgovernment of 
magistrates rather than by the hatred of the Manchu yoke. 
Frequently troops had to be sent from the mainland before order 
was restored. Two of the more serious outbreaks demand our 
attention ; one occurred towards the close of the reign of K'ang 
Hsi, and the other in the reign of the other great emperor, 
Ch'ien Lung. For the sake of convenience we shall briefly 
give an account of them here. 

Rebellion of 1721.— The outbreak that took place in the last 
year of the reign of K'ang Hsi is known, in Chinese annals, as the 
Rebellion of Chu I-kuei (3c ~ M). The blame for this uprising- 
belonged entirely to Wang Chen (3E^), the prefect of Taiwan, 
whose extortions and bloodthirstiness had driven the people to take 
up arms against him. The rioL broke out in May. The fact that 
in seven days the movement spread over the whole prefecture is 
enough to show the extent of the prevailing discontent. Chu I- 
kuei was chosen leader because he bore the same surname as the 
ruling house of the Ming Dynasty. The rebellion was as easily 
put down as it was started. The Chinese Admiral, whose head- 
quarters were at Amoy, sailed for Formosa with what forces he 
could collect ; and, in the following month, made short work of the 
whole trouble. After the restoration of peace in Formosa, the 
government was reorganized, along the line suggested by General 
Lan Ting-chen (H ST^), for administrative purposes. The 
then northernmost district, Chu Lo (till), was divided into two 
districts, known as Chu Lo and Chang Hua (f^b), subject to 
the supervision of the Prefect of Taipeh Fu ("n^lbtff), resident 
at Samsui. 

Rebellion of 1786. — The uprising that occurred in the reign 
of Ch'ien Lung, in 1786, was more serious than the one we have 
just described. Its leader, Ling Shuang-wen (ftsfc^c), was a 
millionaire of Chang Hua and chairman of a secret society, known 
as Tien Ti Hui (JZi&'W), or the Heaven and Earth Society. His 
wealth was itself a protection against arrest until an appeal was 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 375 

made to the military head of the government of Taiwan. This was 
General Ch'ai Ta-ehi (3£;ME), a tsttngping, or brigadier-general. 

He decided to break into Ling's valley and arrest him ; and, as a 
preliminary measure, he ordered all the neighboring villages to be 
sacked and burned, thus rendering hundreds of innocent people 
homeless. His crnelty gave Ling Shuang-wen new adherents and 
enabled him at the head of a great horde to seize the districts of 
of Chang Hua and Chu Lo. After hard righting, Ch'ai regained 
Clm Lo in the following year ; but only to be shut up a prisoner 
in the city. He made a most stubborn defence, for which the 
Emperor Ch'ien Lung created him an earl and changed the name 
of the district from Chu Lo to Chia-yi (H H). Relief had to come 
from without, but it did not arrive until Generals Fu K'ang-an 
(MM&) and Hai Lan-ch'a (SfB^), two of the famous soldiers 
of Ch'ien Lung, had sailed over from Fukien. Ch'ai was liberated, 
the rebellion put down and Ling Shuang-wen, its leader, captured 
and put to death. Owing to a personal feud between Ch'ai and Fu 
Kang-an, the brave defender of Chia-yi was sent as a prisoner to 
Peking, where he was subsequently put to death, a victim of racial 
prejudice. An account of the rebellion from the pen of Ch'ien 
Lung himself may to-day be seen on one of the tablets in front of 
Xanput'o (iff # Pt), a temple at Amoy, commanding a view of the 
harbor, where a reception was given to the American Fleet in 1908. 
The cost of this last expedition alone amounted to Tls. 8,000,000. 
It is a matter of sincere regret that Formosa, which had been 
annexed and retained at a great cost in life and treasure to China, 
was on a later day deeded away by the depraved descendants of 
K'ang Hsi. 



376 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER XUI 

RUSSIAN ENCROACHMENTS UPON MANCHURIA AND THE 
TREATY OF NERCHINSK 

Russian Expansion; The Founding of the City of Alba- 
zin. — When the Manchn empire was in the process of formation, 
a new dynasty of the Romanoffs ascended the Russian throne 
(1613) . Russia was then largely an Asiatic power, and was not 
strong enough to assert herself against Turkey, Poland and 
Sweden, her western neighbors. In the East, however, there 
was no strong neighbor to stay her progress. The rich territory 
watered by the Amur was an inviting field to the adventurous 
Cossacks, or Lo Sa (H $J), as the Chinese historians called them. 
In 1643, an exploring expedition descended this river to the Sea 
of Okhotsk. On its return, Poyarkoff, an advanturous Cos- 
sack, told the governor of Yakutsk that, with a few hundred 
soldiers, the rich Amur region could be made a Russian province. 
In 1650, the Russians drove out the Solon (M HO tribes from 
their home; and the next year built a city known as Albazin, 
on the northern bank of the Amur. To dislodge the Russians 
from Albazin, a body of 2,000 Manchus was sent in 1652 from 
Ninguta to the aid of the Achan tribes ; but they had to beat a 
hasty retreat. Knowing that the Manchus then had their 
hands full in China, the Russians busied themselves in making 
their position on the Amur as secure as they could. At the 
junction of the Nepchu and Shierha rivers, they also built a 
strong fortress and transferred their governor from Yeniseisk to 
this point. 

Inroads of the Russians. — In 1654, Stepano, the new 
Governor of Albazin, descended the Amur on a plundering 
expedition, and was repulsed by the Manchus on the Sungari 
River with a heavy loss. Returning in 1656 to make another 
attempt, he met with a worse disaster and lost his own life. Of 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 377 

the 500 Cossacks that were with him, only a small number 
returned to Yakutsk with the sad tidings. 

Early Diplomatic Relations with the Russians.— While 

the conflict was going on along the frontier, two Russian trading 
embassies arrived at Peking (1654) . Naturally they were treated 
as envoys bearing tribute from an inferior state. One of them 
was dismissed with a letter to the Czar, in which the Emperor 
Shun Chili expressed his gratificaton at the loyalty displayed by a 
nation "which had never before sent any tribute to China," 
commanded the Czar to receive with reverence the gifts his 
Imperial Majesty had been pleased to bestow on him, and con- 
cluded with a hope that he would continue to send similar 
missions in the future. This arrogant epistle, it seems, never 
reached its destination; or, if it did, it proved too difficult for 
Moscow to decipher. 

In 1670, China sent her first Mission to Miscow. Owing 
to the frequent raids of the Cossacks on the border, this mission 
was specially instructed to demand from the Russians the sur- 
render of a certain tribe that had crossed the Chinese frontier into 
Russia and settled in the region of the Inkuda. For this, the 
authorities of -Manchuria had no one but themselves to blame. It 
was due entirely to their lack of hospitality that the tribe in 
question had decided to abandon their adopted home, having 
formerly come from the region of the Shierha. 

Owing to the fact that there was no one at Moscow who was 
able to understand Chinese, the Russian government dismissed 
the mission, by appointing her own envoy to accompany the 
embassy back to China where they arrived in 1675. At Peking, 
where there were many Jesuit missionaries, no difficulty, such as 
had marred the success of the Chinese mission at Moscow, was 
encountered. The points the Russian envoy wished to gain were 
two, viz., the demarcation of the frontier and the extension of 
trade. But as the Chinese government would discuss no proposals 
from Russia before her own demand had been complied with, the 
Russian mission was also a failure. 



37S OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

K'ang Hsi Prepares for War. — By 1682, K'ang Hsi had no 

rebellion to tie his hands. He sent a hunting expedition across the 
Amur to ascertain the strength of the Russian position at Albazin, 
and having received an encouraging report a vigorous campaign was 
at once decided upon. A president of the Board of Revenue was 
sent from Peking to Ninguta to build a fleet of wooden junks for 
service on the Amur; and the post of military governor for the 
province of Heilungkiang (^ f| K) with residence at Aigun (S£ M) 
was created.* Matters now drifted rapidly into war. In 1683 a 
small party of Cossacks was captured by the Chinese in the vicinity 
of Aigun and taken back to Tsitsihar. A year later interpreters 
Avere sent to Albazin to demand its surrender. 

Commencement of Hostilities. — The Chinese demand having 
been refused, an army of 10,000 men, with 200 guns, set out in 
1685 from Tsitsihar; and a fleet of 100 ships manned by 5,000 
soldiers and sailors descended the Sungari to the Amur. To hold 
Albazin with a garrison of 450 men against such tremendous odds, 
was out of the question. The city was bombarded in June; and 
Tolbusin, its commandant, after having lost about 100 in killed and 
captured, retired to Nerchinsk. Albazin was then razed to the ground, 
and the Russian prisoners were all conveyed to Peking, where they 
were liberated by the Emperor and incorporated into the Banner 
Organization. It is said that their descendants may be found to-day 
among the Manchus. 

The Russians, however, soon returned with a fresh contingent 
of about 100 Cossacks under Perton, and entrenched themselves at 
the old site of Albazin. In July, 1686, they were attacked by 8,000 
Manchus with 400 guns, and were obliged to live most of the time 
in underground shelters. These shelters gave them refuge from the 



* The towns of Tsitsihar and Mergan were both fortified, and ten postal 

" stages" established along the main route leading from Manchuria to the Amur, 

in order to facilitate the transportation of troops and military stores. The 

Khalkhas who had for years had commercial dealings with the Russians on the 

rontiers were told to close their trading posts. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 379 

fire, but afforded no protection against disease. Between the fire of 
the enemy and diseases, the brave garrison was gradually reduced to 
about 60 men; yet they refused to surrender. During an armistice 
granted by the Chinese, the military Governor of Aigun sent the 
Cossacks some medical aid; but Perton politely declined it, and sent 
some wheat in return as if to say that the garrison stood in no need 
of provisions. At last, word came from Peking that jJeace had been 
concluded ; whereupon the surviving Cossacks were spared their lives 
and permitted to return home. 

Opening of Peace Negotiations.*— Early in 16S6 K'angHsi 
grew tired of the war, and had the wisdom to employ the Dutch as 
his intermediaries. He also addressed a letter to the Czar calling 
his attention to the hostile acts the Russian authorities had commit- 
ted against the Chinese. The Czar of Russia at the time was Peter 
the Great, who was under the regency of his sister Sophia. As 
Russia was beset with internal troubles of every description she was 
quite ready for peace. She pleaded her ignorance of the hostile 
acts complained of, and asked for an armistice, which was readily 
granted by K'ang Hsi. In the following year the Russian ambassa- 
dor, Feordore Golvin, arrived at Selenginsk, the place where the 
plenipotentiaries were to meet. But the Chinese representatives, 
with an escort of no less than 10,000 soldiers, did not leave Peking 
till May, 1688. On their march through Mongolia, it was discover- 
ed that, in consequence of a war between Dzungaria and the 
Khalkhas, the route to Selenginsk was blocked by hostile preparations. 
The Chinese not being able to reach their destination, the place of 
meeting was changed to Nerchinsk. 

Restoration of Peace. — The plenipotentiaries met at Nerchinsk 
in 1689, and each side was backed by an army drawn up in battle 
array. As the claims of the Chinese and Russians were equally 
arrogant, it looked as if further bloodshed were inevitable. But 



Sec next Chapter. 



380 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

through the services of the Jesuit missionaries Gerlillon ($g M) and 
Pereiva (ffc %), who acted as interpreters to the Chinese, a treaty 
consisting of six articles was drawn up and signed on August 27, 
1689. It provided for the retirement of the Russians from Albazin 
and vicinity where they had been for thirty-eight years, the defining 
of the frontier along the Hsing An Mountain Range and the Argun 
River, the regulation of trade, and the mutual surrender of fugitives. 
No mention was made of the tribe that had left Chinese territory. 
Its khan, Tumur, having been baptized and received into the Greek 
Church at Moscow, the Chinese wisely gave up their demand. The 
Treaty of Nerchinsk, as it is called, was written in Manchu, Chinese, 
Mongolian, Russian, and Latin* (the last named being the 
authoritative text), and was engraved upon two stone monuments 
erected on the banks of the Gorbitza (fe f iU ^) and the Argun by 
order of K'ang Hsi. In 1692, Peter the Great sent Ysbrandf Ides to 
Peking to exchange the ratifications of the treaty. His overland jour- 
ney occupied him a year and eight months. On his arrival at Peking, 
as he performed the kowtow, or prostrations before the Chinebe Emper- 
or, the exchange of ratifications was effected without trouble. After 
the conclusion of peace, a number of Chinese military colonists was 
sent by K'ang Hsi to reclaim land along the Zeya river; and for several 
decades nothing but peaceful relations existed between the two 
governments. Trading caravans continued to arrive at the Mon- 
golian frontier from Russia; and many Russians were permitted to 
remain in Peking for the purpose of studying the Chinese and 
Manchu languages. The boundary as outlined in the Treaty of 
Nerchinsk remained unchanged until 1858. The most instructive 
factor in the whole proceeding is that diplomacy and strength go 
hand in hand. Right is maintained by might, which may some time 
take the form of diplomacy; and no treaty is binding unless a state 
is able and prepared to defend its frontier by force of arms. 



See pagt 3S1. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



381 



Great discrepancies exist between the Russian and Chinese 
texts. For the convenience of our readers, we shall here produce 
one or two of the articles in the treaty. 



RUSSIAN 



CHINESE 



Article I 

The river Gorbitza, which joins the 
Schilka on its left side near the river 
Tchernaya. is to form the boundary 
between the empires. The boundary 
from the source of that river to the 
sea will run along the top of the moun- 
tain chain (in which the river rises). 
The jurisdiction of the two Empires 
will be divided in such a way that (the 
\ alleys of) all the rivers or streams 
Bowing from the south slope of these 
mountains to join the Amur shall belong- 
to the Empire of China (lit. of Han) : 
while (the valleys of) all the rivers 
flowing down from the other (or north- 
ern) side of these mountains shall be 
similarly under the rule of His Majesty 
the Czar of the Russian Empire. As to 
(the valley of) the rivers which lie 
between the Russian river Oud and the 
aforesaid mountains — running into the 
Amur and extending to the sea — which 
are now under Chinese rule, the question 
of jurisdiction over them is to remain 
open. On this point the (Russian) 
Ambassador is (at present) without 
explicit instructions from the Czar. 
Hereafter, when the Ambassadors on 
both sides shall have returned (? to 
their respective countries), the Czar 
and the Emperor of China (Han) will 
decide the question, on terms of amity, 
either by sending Plenipotentiaries, or 
by written correspondence. 



Article I 

The river Gorbitza, which is next to 
the Chorna (Tchernaya), or Wu-Lun- 
Mu River, and which enters the Amur 
from the north, shall constitute the 
boundary of the two Empires. The 
boundary line shall ascend the Gorbitza 
to the Shih-ta-hsing-an Range, and run 
along that range (eastward) to the sea. 
The country to the south of this range, 
with all its rivers and streams entering 
the Amur, shall belong to China; and 
the country to the north of the range 
with its rivers and streams shall belong 
to Russia. 



Article III 

The fortified town of Albazin, built 
by his Majesty the Czar, is to be 
completely demolished, and the people 
residing there, with all their military 
and other stores and equipment, are to 
be moved into Russian territory. ' Those 
moved can take all their property with 
them, and they are not to be allowed to 
suffer loss (by detention of any of it). 



Article III 

The walled town, in the Yacsa coun- 
try under the government of Russia, 
shall be completely demolished, and the 
Russian settlers there shall remove 
all their property and effects to the 
Czar's country without let or hindrance. 



382 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER XLIII 
THE FIRST WAR WITH DZUNGARIA, OR CONQUEST OF MO-PEI 

Brief Sketch of Mongolia. — The high plateau that separates 
the warm, fertile lowlands of China on the south from the cold 
Siberian depression on the north, is known as Mongolia., or the land 
of the Mongols; and comprises an approximate area of 1,300,000 
square miles. It is walled in by mountains and covered in part by 




Mongol knife and sheath. (" Among the Mongols") 

a desert. The mountains rising to the snow-line intercept most of 
the moisture in the winds which sweep over its tablelands. This 
fact accounts for the extremely hot summer in Mongolia ; while its 
elevation makes it bitterly cold in winter. Agriculture can be 
carried on at only a few favored spots ; and its inhabitants, from 
lime immemorial, have been 
obliged to lead a pastoral 
life, their wealth consisting 
chiefly of their flocks and 
herds. 

Politically the country 
is divided into Inner and 
Outer Mongolia. Inner 
Mongolia is that portion 
which borders upon China 
Proper and Manchuria. 

i-i ii Prayer-mills driven by wind. 

Outer Mongolia bounds the r Amtng t he Mongols") 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



383 



Inner section on the north by a vast semi-circular sweep, and extends 
to the territories of the Russian Empire. The Inner Mongols, as 
we have already seen, were foremost in submitting to the Manchus ; 
but their cousins of the Outer region, the Khalkhas (n£ M n£) and 
the Eleuths (JE & f#), Northern and Western Mongols, respectively, 
remained outside of Manchu influence for a considerable time 
longer. 

The Khalkhas. — By the time the Manchus came into power, 
the Khalkhas were divided into three tribes or khanates. Going 
from east to west, we find (1st) Tsctsen khanate (^ E. ft), occupy- 
ing the region of the Kerulun river (^ ^ f& ffi) ; (2nd) the Tushetu 
Khanates (± lit HI ft), the region of the 
Tola (± tft) river; and (3rd) the 
Dzarssaktu Khanate (HM'fiMft), the 
region along the western prolongation 
of the Khangai (#i S£) Mountain. Be- 
ing the descendants of Jarlair (ft %M), 
the youngest son of Dah Yen Khan 
(iiHrT), the Khalkhas, like the Inner 
Mongols, claim descent from Jenghis 
Khan. The introduction among them 
of the Tibetan form of Buddhism, or 
Lamaism, by Abatai (HEfS), the first 
khan of the Tushetu Khanate, and 
grandson of Jarlair, marked the turning- 
point in their career. With the spread 
of Buddhism, they lost much of their 
restless spirit and fierce delight in war, qualities which had com- 
bined to uphold the arms of Jenghis Khan, and later of Dah Yen 
Khan. As a consequence, they were scarcely capable of defending 
themselves against their western neighbors, the Eleuths, whose 
depredations, as we shall see presently, soon compelled them to 
desert their own horns and to seek hospitality at the hands of K'ang 
Hsi, the great Chinese Emperor. Even before this time, the 
Khalkhas were not altogether unknown in the Manchu court. They 




I,ama abbot of Weng Niu T'e, Hata. 
("Tramps iu Dark Mongolia") 



384 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

had, on several occasions, testified their allegiance by a tribute of 
" Nine Whites" (;Ji 6), that is eight horses and one camel, all pure 
white in color. But the event of which we are to speak tended to 
make the relationship already established take on a permanent 
character. 

The Eleuths. — Unlike their neighbors, the Eleuths could 
boast of no imperial lineage. During the Ming Dynasty they gave 
the Chinese no little trouble. After the death of Ya Sen (■&%), 
their chief, who had carried home among his prisoners of war, one 
Chinese emperor, and had, on more than one occasion, threatened 
Peking with an invasion, their tribes split into four. The tribe 
living in what is now Urumtsi (,% % M^) took the name Khoshoit 
(*H M 4#) ; that on the upper waters of the Irtish (Iglil), the 
Turbet (± ft ffi #) ; that of the Hi Valley, the Dzungar (Sp $ ft) ; 
and that in what is now the Tarbagatai Prefecture (iIE»n o), 
the Turgut (± ft"M4#). In the closing days of the Ming Dynasty, 
the Eleuths gave the world a famous leader in the person of Gushi 
Khan (K #& fp), a prince of the Khoshoit tribe. His military fame 
was such that when a religious feud broke out in Tibet, he was 
appealed to by the Dalai Lama, as the defender of the Yellow 
Church (Sffc). He responded with an army, which marched into 
Tibet by way of Kokonor (# $&), occupied Kham (n& ;£), and killed 
Tsangpa Khan (IE?f), the temporal ruler of Tibet. From this 
time, the Khoshoit began to exercise a controlling influence in 
Tibetan affairs; and, by the order of their prince. Gushi Khan, 
they made Kokonor their new home. 

In course of time, the Dalai Lama grew tired of the interfer- 
ence he had to endure from Kokonor. This time he looked to 
Galdan (!Sgft;J9-), chief of the Dzungars, for his deliverance. 
Galdan himself had been a lama in his younger days and was the 
murderer of Cenghe (ft $0, his brother and immediate predecessor 
on the Dzungarian throne. He had no trouble in finding an excuse 
for marching an army into the domain of the Khoshoit tribe which 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 385 

he promptly annexed to his own in 1667. In the following year, he 

marched into Kashgaria (lift fr^S HC), and restored Abak OjE1j£) , 
chief of the White Mountaineers (fi Uijpg), and a friend of the 
Dalai Lama, to the throne (fl* ± J^ #) and expelled all the Black 
Mountaineers (3 iU g|), who opposed him. Thus within five years 
(1673-1678), Galdan had extended his influence not only over 
all Western Mongolia, including- Cobdo (ft '4& £) and Kokonor, but 
also over both routes of the Tien Shan. His frontier on the east 
had been brought up to the border of the Dzarssaktu Khanate, 
and he began to cast a longing eye over the vast territory lying- 
still further east. 

The Origin of the Alashan Mongols. — Owing to the 
depredations of Galdan, a portion of the descendants of Gushi 
Khan migrated to the region north of Ninghsia in the province of 
Kansu and along the western Bend of the Yellow River, extending as 
far as the western extermity of the Great Wall and the Desert of Gobi. 
Here they made their new home with the permission of the Chinese 
Emperor, and became the ancestors of the Alashan Mongols of the 
present day, or more particularly the Khoshoit tribes of Alashan. 

Invasion of the Khalkha Country.— In 1684, a quarrel 
took place among the Khalkha tribes, which threatened to lead the 
three khanates into war. The Emperor of China, the Dalai Dama 
of Tibet, and the Khan of Dzungaria all sent delegates to a confer- 
ence convened for the purpose of settling their differences. At 
the conference the Tushetu Khan became so incensed by the over- 
bearing manner cf Galdan's envoy that he lost control of himself 
completely, drew his swerd and killed him on the spot. The 
danger of a civil war was for the time averted ; but the thoughtless 
and barbarous conduct cf the Tushetu Khan was destined to bring- 
about a war that resulted in the temporary expulsion of the 
Khalkhas from their home. Four vears after the tragedy, 30,000 
Dzungarian soldiers were found on the south side of the Khangai 
Mountains, ready to avenge the death of their representative. 
Previous to this Galdan had several times given out that he was 
coming with the Cossaks to punish the Khalkhas; but his threats 
had always proved false. These false reports had tended to put 
the Khalkhas off their guard, and at the same time he had sent 



386 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

many of his warriors disguised as lamas to attend flocks among 
the unsuspecting people. When the invasion actually took place, 
therefore, the Khalkhas were not only completely taken by 
surprise, but also found the enemy within their own ranks. 
Resistance was useless. The Mongols of the Tushetu Khanate 
fled in terror and were pursued by the Eleuths. On their way east- 
ward, the Eleuths met the Chinese soldiers escorting their envoys 
to the Russian frontier, and this caused Galdan to desist ; but as 
soon as their true destination was found, the plundering was 
resumed and even the inhabitants of the other two khanates were 
not spared. The whole of the Khalkhas now fled across the 
Desert into Mo-Nan, leaving their country to the mercy of the 
enemy. In Mo-Nan they found a friend in the kind-hearted K'ang 
Hsi ; and by his orders they were provided with provisions and 
other necessities of life, and granted permission to use the pasture 
land of the Khorchin tribes for the rearing of their flocks. 

The First Campaign against Galdan( 1690). —During 1689 
K'ang Hsi addressed several communications through the Dalai 
Lama to Galdan, asking him to evacuate the Khalkha country 
and to restore it to the rightful owners. This request only 
brought forth a counter demand from Galdan that China should 
surrender to him the Tushetu Khan, to answer for the murder 
of his envoy. To back up his demand Galdan even made 
inroads into Inner Mongolia, defeated the frontier guards, and 
clamoured for war at the very door of China. It was evident 
that diplomacy alone would not solve the problem; and K'ang Hsi 
was convinced of this fact. He promptly dispatched two armies 
to check the advance of the enemy ; one led by Prince Yii (f&) went 
through the Great Wall at Hsi Feng K'ou (H ^ P), and the other 
under Prince Kung (W), at Ku Pei K'ou (tibP). A third army, 
led by the Emperor, went to the bank of the Pulo (tf &), where he 
thought he would be in a better position to direct matters than at 
Peking. Prince Kung, who engaged the enemy first, failed to 
check Galdan's advance. Having defeated this division of the 
Chinese army, Galdan now crossed the Shara Muren (M $i] 7kfra), 
and was within 700 li of Peking. 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 387 

The Battle of Ulangputung (1690) —The division of 
Prince Yu was next engaged, and on Sept. 3, 1690, a great battle 
was fought at Ulangputung (&IH^&). The enemy formed 
squares with his camels, behind which stood his soldiers ready for 
action. But the rifle lire of the Chinese was so destructive that 
many of the camels fell dead on the spot; while the rest, panic- 
stricken, broke through the ranks of their owners, and caused the 
greatest confusion. Before nightfall, the rout of the enemy was 
complete; and if the commanders had used the advantage thus 
gained, Galdan might never have reached his own country. Un- 
fortunately, the Emperor, having fallen ill, had returned to Peking ; 
and Prince Yii, on whom the chief command now devolved, was 
not equal to the situation. He did not pursue the enemy and 
prevented others from doing so; and thus let Galdan, with the 
remnant of his army, retire safely into Cobdo (f4 ft £). 

The Great Maneuver of Tolonor (1691).— Having tem- 
porarily crippled the power of Galdan, K'ang Hsi now T applied 
himself to the task of organizing the Khalkhas. They had tasted 
China's kindness, and it was high time that they should see 
something of her strength. For this purpose a maneuver was held 
the next year at Tolonor (£ H& W W), on the northern border of the 
Chihli province, where all Mongol tribes that had accepted the 
Chinese rule, including the Khalkhas, were assembled. After the 
Grand Review, the Emperor received the Khalkha khans according 
to military etiquette, conferred upon them titles of Imperial Nobility, 
organized their people into 37 banners (now 82), and permitted 
them to continue to use the pasture land of the Khorchin tribe. 
For the first time in their history, the Khalkhas received a banner 
organization similar to their brethren of the Inner region. As there 
were many lamas with the Khalkhas, K'ang Hsi constructed a large 
monastery at Tolonor, where they might practice their worship. 
From the year 1691 China, therefore, dates her suzerainty over the 
Khalkhas. 

The Second Campaign against Galdan.— By 1694 Galdan, 
having surficientlv recovered from the effects of his last defeat, was 



388 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

once more ready to measure his strength with K'ang Hsi. From 
Cobdo he wrote renewing his demand for the person of the Tushetu 
Khan, and sent his emissaries to preach sedition among the tribes 
of Inner Mongolia. Towards the fall of the same year, he returned 
with a fresh army of 30,000 men and entrenched himself on the 
bank of the Kerulun River. Since he was unwilling to come south 
to receive his punishment, K'ang Hsi was prepared to give it to him 
where he was. In the spring of 1695 a grand army marched in three 
sections ; the Emperor taking command in person of the central 
division, which went by way of the Tu Shih K'ou (Jg X\ P) Pass 
through die Great Wall and wound its way through the desert. In 
spite of the difficulties of the road, he arrived first. It was then 
rumored that a regiment of Cossacks armed with rifles was coming 
to the aid of Galdan;* but K'ang Hsi, undaunted by such reports, 
continued his advance in the direction of the Kerulun although 
most of his ministers and generals counselled a retreat. To his 
great surprise and disappointment, not a single tent was seen on the 
bank of the river where he had expected to meet his foe. Galdan 
had fled. For three days, the Chinese pursued the vanquishing 
enemy, and returned with rich plunder, which he had left in his flight. 

Battle of Chaumuhtao. — But Galdan by his retreat from the 
Kerulun was only leading" his men to destruction. At Chaumuhtao 
(Bg ^ £),f on the right bank of the Tula, his retreat was intercepted 
by a large Chinese army under the command of Fei Yang-ku. 
Galdan had still 10,000 men, and he began the battle by assaulting 
the Chinese position on a low hill. For several hours, the desperate 
battle was indecisive. Suddenly it occurred to one of the Chinese 
commanders to make a flanking movement. He had observed a 



* The Eleuths possessed no rifles and this fact evidently accounts for their 
defeats. In this connection it is interesting to note that in 1691 the King of 
Corca sent K'ang Hsi 3,000 rifles or "Birds-Guns." The Emperor was so pleased 
with them that he excused the King from paying other tribute that year. 

-j-The place is also called Tung Kulun, or Eastern Kulun, being east of the 
city of Urga, the seat of the Mongol Lamaism. Through Urga lies the route 
leading from Kalgan on the Great Wall to Kiakta on the. Russian frontier and 
Meai Mai Cheng on the Mongolian border. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 389 

crowd o\ non-combatants in the rear of the enemy. Thinking that 
these must he the women and children, he ordered a body of men 
to attack them. His guess was right. As soon as the movement 
was discovered, the Kleuths were seized with panic, gave up the 
contest, and flew to the rescue of their families. The Chinese bore 
down upon them with great slaughter, and Galdan himself barely 
escaped with his life. Hundreds of the Kleuths, among" whom w r as 
Galdan' s wife, were found dead on the field; and 3,000 laid down 
their arms and surrendered. When the news of this signal victory 
reached the Emperor on the banks of the Kerulun, he returned with 
his Division to Peking, leaving Fei Yang-kit to take possession of 
Mo-Pei. 

Ts'ewang Arabdan Becomes Khan of Dzungaria. — After 
his defeat at Chaumuhtao, Galdan retreated into the valley of the 
Tamir (ig % ffi ffl) to recruit a new army. He now found his 
power at the lowest ebb. His nephew, lYewang (^ ;£) Arabdan, 
son of Cenghe, had taken advantage of his defeat and absence to 
become khan of Dzungaria, with the result that all the territory 
west of the Altai Mountains, as well as Kashgaria and Kokonor, 
was lost to him. Rendered homeless and threatened with hunger, 
he thought of seizing the provisions that the Chinese Government 
had gathered on the bank of the Ongin for the benefit of the 
western troops. His hope was to carry them into Hami (pft '$) where 
he could wait for another opportune moment to come eastward. But 
his men, demoralized by repeated defeats, were no longer to be 
relied upon. The}' sought safety in flight even before the handful 
of Chinese soldiers who had been left to guard the provisions. 
When the helpless condition of Galdan was reported to Peking, 
K'ang Hsi went out to Kuei Hua, in the belief that he might induce 
his fores to submit to him. He accordingly sent word to Galdan, 
assuring him of kind treatment and giving him seventy days to 
appear before him in Peking. 

The Third Campaign; Death of Galdan (1697).— Galdan 
however never came. In the beginning of 1697, the Emperor once 
m ore made a trip to the west. This time, he reached Ninghsia, 



390 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

where he busied himself in preparing for a third campaign against 
his foe. Before his plans were carried out word came that Galdan, 
forsaken by all his friends, had ended his life by suicide. When 
his remains were produced by an agent of Ts'ewang. the new khan 
of Dzungaria, K'ang Hsi was ready to return to Peking. Their 
enemy having disappeared, the Khalkhas now returned to their 
native country, which, as a result of the war, had been extended to 
the Altai Mountains. Thus the encounters with Galdan had ter- 
minated in the establishment of China's authority over the 
Khalkhas, who had known no authority other than that'of their own 
khans. After the death of Galdan, K'ang Hsi came into possession 
of evidences showing that Sangji Gyamtso, the regent in Tibet, was 
really responsible for his ambition and depredations; and that 
discovery, as we shall see, was the cause of the conquest of Tibet. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



393 



CHAPTER XI.IV 

THE SECOND WAR WITH THE DZUNGAR 
MONGOLS; CONQUEST OF TIBET 

Geographical Description of Tibet.— Between the K'unlun 
(1^) Mountains on the north and the Himalayas (H M M Ji) on the 
south, and extending from the Chinese province of Szechuan on 
the east to the frontiers of Ladah and Kashmir on the west, is the 
highest tableland in the world. This high tableland is called 
Tibet, and its greatest dimensions are 1,240 by 740 miles. The high 
plateau north of the Tangla Mountains, ranging from 14,000 ro 16,000 
feet in elevation, is uninhabitable. The portion which borders upon 
China and India has an elevation of from 10,000 to 12,000 feet 
only, and is more or less inhabited. The principal divisions of Tibet, 
proceeding from east to west, are : — 

i. Ch'ien Ts'ang (m M), or Anterior Tibet. This is the eastern- 
most part and is nearest to the Chinese frontier. It is also known 
as K'ang (|£), or Khan (ng *), and as Chamdo (m fc £). 

ii. Wei (ff), or Chung Ts'ang O iD, or Central Tibet. This 
contains the capital, Lassa (tft M) (" Throne of God"), where 
resides the Dalai Lama (m M ffl a&), or " Prelate of the Ocean." 

iii. Hon Ts'ang (& M), Ulterior Tibet, or simply Ts'ang. 
This contains the city of Tashilumpo (ft ft* Hl>fc), the residence 
of the Panshen Lama ($J£ M i'l 3 JS), the second pontiff of Lamaism. 




The lama house at So. ("Across Tibet") 



892 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



iv. Ngari (fi ffl), or Western Tibet. 

Tibet is famous as the principal seat of Lamaism, and for the 
fact that all the large rivers that water China and India take their 
rise there. 

Its Early History.— The history of Tibet goes back to very 
ancient time. The Chinese annals begin to mention the nomads of 
the Kokonor region in the eleventh century B.C. During the Epoch 
of Division between the North and the South (420-581, A.D.), the 
inhabitants of Tibet became known as Tangut (JM *£ 4#) , or Tubet 
(IS ffi 4$), and also as Turfan (n± H). At the dawn of the seventh 
century the Turfan gave the Chinese much trouble and extended 
their authority into India and Upper Burmah. The most important 
event in the history of Tibet is undoubtedly the conversion of the 
whole nation to Buddhism. This also took place in the seventh 
century. One of the early kings named Srong Tsan Gampo took 
two wives, one the Chinese princess, Wen Ch'eng (3t J&), and the other 
a daughter of the King of Nepal. Both his wives were devoted 
Buddhists and soon Gampo's kingdom was dotted over with beautiful 
monasteries and flooded with Indian monks. Then the conversion 
of the country began. When Kublai Khan conquered the eastern 
part of Tibet in the thirteenth century, Buddhism was more firmly 
established than ever. Phagspa Lodoi Gyaltshan, the chief priest of 
the Sakya sect, by the authority of Kublai became the temporal as 
well as the spiritual sovereign. The Sakya priesthood, also known 







■ ^#v. 




- 




Vv — 


_$ijjf^. *% 




■ * -l 




*Afe 


V 

\ 


■~g% 


sUS^ 




jjL .. 




-•""'- ^ L<5? 


&*?*? x^igaasggnaBBi {j^Siifi 


Wr.JL '-• 



Tibetan Morkstner. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 393 

as the Red Church (& tyi) from the color of the vestments and 
head coverings adopted by its priests, continued to rule in Tibet until 
the fifteenth century. Marriage was permitted among its members 
with the avowed object of securing hereditary transmission of power, 
and magic arts in infinite variety were professed by them, with the 
result that few traces of the primitive Buddhism remained. A revolt 
against such corrupt and licentious practices occurred in the latter part 
of the fifteenth century under the leadership of Tsongkhaba (^n£E), 
who was born in Sining (® ^) A.D. 1417. He founded a new 
sect, known as the Yellow Church (^ ifc), from the color of the 
vestments and caps adopted by the reformer and his disciples to 
distinguish them from those of the condemned cult. Celibacy was 
strictly enforced by Tsongkhaba ; and, in order to perpetuate his 
power, he invented the theory of the Hubilhan (n^ ^ $j ^), a Tibetan 
term for transmigration. According to his theory two of his disciples 
would be borne generation after generation to practice the Great 
Conveyance (^c^), or Mahayama, the esoteric form of Buddhism. 
These disciples were called Dalai Lama and Panshen Lama. The 
Dalai Lama, the Tibetans inform us, is the Bodhisattwa Avalokites- 
wara (the Chinese Kuan Yin IS^) personified; and the Panshen 
Lama, the Bodhisattwa Manchusiri (#$0. These Lamas remain 
the joint pontiffs of the Lama Church to the present day. They 
never die, so they claim, but when they desert their old bodies 
the}- immediately enter new ones. 

The Ascendancy of the Yellow Church and the Chept- 
sandampa Hulukhtu. — The first Dalai Lama belonged to the 
ruling house of the Turfan, and was the ruler in Lassa at the time 
of his election. Through his temporal position, which he did not 
,uive up, the Yellow Church, or Gulukpa, at once eclipsed the older 
sect, or Dukpa. Moreover it was the Yellow Church that was 
supported and patronized by the Ming emperors. They imitated their 
predecessors, the Mongols, and literally heaped titles upon the Dalai 
Lamas. By this means they sought to exercise an influence in 



39i 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Tibetans affairs. The influence of the Red Church in Anterior Tibet 
was almost nothing, and so it retired into its stronghold in 
Tashilumpo. 




Chinese fort at Litang. ( " Across Tibet ") 



Because the Dalai Lama was also concerned with the 
government of Tibet, the Tibetans thought that the Panshen Lama 
or, to give him his full title, Panshen Erdeni Lama, who was 
burdened with no worldly cares, was worthy of a higher degree of 
adoration. But the second Dalai Lama introduced a system of 
regency which still prevails in Tibet to-day. By this system, the 
Dalai Lama is relieved of many of the cares of state, and his Diba 
(3$ E,), or regent, assisted by a number of lesser dignitaries, actually 
rules the country in his name. 

During the time of the third Dalai Lama, Lamaism spread 
most rapidly among the Mongols. Even Yenta, the famous chief 
of the Ordos (M^) Mongols, went in person to pay homage to him 
and invited him to visit Kokonor and Mo-nan, with a view to 
bringing the word of salvation to his warlike subjects. This 
invitation the Dalai Lama gladly accepted, and the conversion of 
the Kokonor and Mo-nan Mongols followed. Having embraced 
Lamaism, the birth of a Dalai Lama among the Mongols was only 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



895 



a matter of time; and the next (the fourth) one was no other than 
a great-grandson of Yenta himself. Lamaism had in the meantime 
invaded every corner in Northern Mongolia and the Hi Valley. 
Owing to the distance that separates the Khalkhas from Tibet, the 
former elected their own deity in 1604. This deity, called Chept- 
sandampa (^ hi^-E) Hutukhtu (n? HI £ IB), resided at Kurnn (it 




A Uma Temple 

H), or Urga. (Cheptsan in the Tibetan language means venerable, 
Dampa, sacred. Hulukhtu is ''one who returns again," an Avatar) 
(# * A). His authority is regarded as supreme by the Tushetu and 
Tsetsen Khanates. For a time, the office was always held by a 
younger brother of the Tushetu Khan. When the Dzungars invaded 
the country of the Khalkhas, many of the latter wanted to seek 



39(3 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



protection from the Russians in the North; but the patriarch of 
Urga overruled their suggestion because he knew that his faith 
could never find sympathy with the Russians. 

The Expulsion of the Red Church from Tibet— In 1637, 
the election of the fifth Dalai Lama took place just before a crisis. 
There was a feud between this church and the Red Church, and he 
wanted foreign help. The Mings were then on the eve of losing 
their empire; and the Manchus, who were not unknown to the 
Lamas, were still outside of the Great Wall. The Eleuths were 
therefore the nearest power to which he could apply for help against 
his religious rival at Tashilumpo. The success of Gushi Khan, who 
took up the cause of the Dalai Lama, has been told elsewhere. After 
the death of Tsangpa Khan, the defender of the Red Church, the 
Sakya priesthood was no longer tolerated in Tibet. It took refuge 
in Bhutan and Nepal, where it remained in power till a very recent 
date. With an escort furnished by Gushi Khan, the Panshen Lama 
'established for the first time his headquarter at Tashilumpo. 

Death of the Fifth Dalai Lama; Duplicity of Sangji.— 
The Fifth Dalai Lama died in 1682. His death was kept a secret 

by Sangji, his Diba, who guarded 
the secret so successfully that agents 
sent into Tibet by K'ang Hsi were 
not able to find out the truth. K'ang 
Hsi wanted the Dalai Lama to use his 
good offices to induce Galdan to leave 
the Khalkha country, but the person 
to whom he appealed was dead. 
K'ang Hsi's communication eventual- 
ly fell into the hands of Sangji, who 
forthwith revealed its contents to 
his friend, Galdan, and encouraged 
him to make further trouble in the 
Khalkha country. When Galdan met his defeat at the hands of 
Prince Yii, it was Sangji also that intervened in order to give him 
lime to escape. Sangji was fully responsible for what Galdan did. 




I,atn.i Temple, Peking. 
(" China and het People," I) 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 397 

When K'ang Hsi possessed himself of the faets he demanded an 
explanation from Sangji, upon whom he had a few years before 
conferred the title of Tubet Kuo Wang- (" King of Tibet"). Sangji 
knew he could keep the death of the Dalai Lama a secert no 
longer and at once elevated a lad of sixteen to the vacant throne. 

Death of Sangji ; Two Rival Lamas. — tin fortunately 
Sangji's choice was not acceptable to Lhatsang Khan (i&MH-), 
Gushi Khan's successor, who wanted to put his own man in the 
Palace of Potala. A fend arose between Lhatsang Khan and 
Sangji, which ended in 1705 in the murder of the latter. K'ang 
Hsi, always ready to have a voice in Tibetan affairs, now sided 
with Lhatsang Khan, and recognized his candidate as the loyal 
successor to the Dalai Lama, who had died some twenty years 
before. But the choice of Lhatsang Khan was in turn objected 
to by the Mongols of Kokonor. They asked K'ang Hsi to make 
a lama of Lhatsang, the Sixth Dalai Lama, by issuing to him a 
charter and an official seal. K'ang Hsi now found himself in 
a dilemma. The question that he had been called upon to decide 
was of little interest to him, but of vital importance to the 
Tibetans and Mongols. He was not ready to offend either ; and 
accordingly he built the Lama of the Kokonor Mongols a temple 
at Sining, and tried to avoid the decision of the cmestion. While 
matters remained thus unsettled, Tibet was invaded by the 
Dznngars under the lead of the ambitious successor of Galdan. 

Ts'ewang Arabdan; His Invasion of Tibet.— Tsewang 
Arabdan was no less ambitious than K'ang Hsi. He wanted to 
rule a Mongol empire and knew as well as K'ang Hsi that he 
would have no chance unless he conld exercise a preponderating 
influence over the Dalai Lama in Tibet. He had married a sister 
of Lhatsang Khan and had given his own daughter in marriage to 
this Khan's son, Danchung, during the latter's visit to Hi. In 1716 
he sent Danchung and his wife home with an escort of 6,000 men. 
This was merely an excuse. His true object was to occupy Lassa, 
the capital of Tibet. To avoid arousing the suspicion of K'ang 
Hsi, the Dzungar army went first to Khobud. Creeping through 



398 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

the passes in the Prejevalsky Range, they at length gained 
Tibetan soil, and proceeded as far east as Tangri Nor before their 
true mission was discovered. Lhatsang Khan did his best to 
expel the intruders, but was defeated. Lassa was besieged and 
upon its fall Lhatsang Khan was slain, and the Dalai Lama he 
had elected imprisoned. All this was done before K'ang *Hsi had 
time to come to the rescue of his friend. 

Annihilation of Galund's Party.— In February, 1718, a 
Chinese contingent under the command of Galund, Tartar General 
of Sian, set out from Sining for Tibet. The General was bold but 
careless. After a few skirmishes, he began to feel confident of 
victory and took absolutely no precaution to protect his rear. On 
the bank of the Hara Usu, his little army, cut off from retreat and 
communications, was virtually annihilated. 

China Prepares to Invade Tibet. — Nothing was more 
detestable to the Chinese statesmen in Peking than the idea of carrying 
on a war beyond the frontier of China. They thought the Tibetans 
should be left lo manage their own affairs, and could see no reason 
why China should shed any more blood, or waste any more treasure, 
on a country that was practically unknown. But their Emperor was 
more far-sighted than they. K'ang Hsi knew that he must make the 
Dzungars go, or suffer the frontier of China to be attacked and the 
vast territory of Mongolia to slip away from his grasp. So far he 
had failed to save Tibet; but he would try again. He was not 
fighting for the Tibetans alone, but for China as well. Having 
fully surveyed the situation, he ordered military forces to be 
gathered at Sining and Chengtu, and sent Yiin Li, his fourteenth 
son, to the former place to superintend the warlike preparations. 

The Kokonor Dalai Lama Enters Lassa Under Chinese 
Escort. — By 1720, everything was ready. As already stated, K'ang 
Hsi had his own reason for sending troops into Tibet. Nevertheless 
he took care to have it appear as though he was taking all the 
trouble on account of the young Lama whom he had permitted to 
reside at Sining. He knew the Tibetans would not object to the 
man now because they had no representative in Lassa. The Lama 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 399 

was therefore permitted to accompany the army that set out from 
Sining' in February, 1/20. As the Eniperor had expected, all the 
Mongol Khans gladly sent their contingents to escort their Lama to 
his capital. To oppose the army that had the moral support of 
Mongolia and Tibet was of course out of the question. The 
Dzungars' commander tried to make a stand in the neighborhood 
of Chumalha Nor; and twice was he badly routed. Before 
he had time to fall upon Lassa, that city had fallen into the 
hands of the second army which had penetrated into Tibet from 
Szechuan, by way of Tachienlu. The Dzungars had no alternative 
but to leave Tibet. Once more they crossed the Prejevalsky Range, 
and this time in the direction of their own country. The Sixth 
Dalai Lama at last found himself seated in the beautiful Palace of 
Potala. The Mongols were highly pleased; the Tibetans accepted 
their choice in silence; and, to guard against any unforeseen 
emergency, a garrison of 2,000 Mongol soldiers was left in Lassa 
by the orders of the Emperor. 

Restoration of Peace. — When the Dzungars reached home 
they found Ts'ewang Arabdan their King busily engaged in 
defending his frontier against the Russians. Peter the Great was 
determined to absorb Little Bokhara, and Arabdan needed all his 
men in the west. As a consequence, the defence along his eastern 
frontier was weak. In 1722, a Chinese army, after having driven 
back his outposts along the Altai Mountains, advanced as far west 
as Urumtsi. Unable to carry on two wars at the same time, 
Arabdan promptly made overtures for peace, through the medium of 
the Cheptsandampa at Urga. K'ang Hsi w r as now Hearing his 
grave, and was glad that the war was at an end. He left to his 
successors the more difficult work of conquering Dzungaria, and of 
breaking the Eleuth power once and for all time. K'ang Hsrs 
authority never extended beyond Hami, which w r as the farther 
frontier town north of the T'ienshan Mountains. 



400 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER XLV 
K'ANG HSI : THE MAN AND THE RULER 

The Character of K'ang Hsi. — We have so far seen but one 
phase of the great Emperor K'ang Hsi. We have seen how he 
fought, and shall now see how he governed. With indomitable 
spirit and the fine physique thatr characterized the Manchus of his 
day, the Emperor was a Chinese by culture. " My only pur- 
pose," he declared in reply to a question from his grandmother 
the day after his accession, "shall be the tranquillity and pros- 
perity of my empire in order that the whole nation may live 
and enjoy the blessings of peace." This remark shows how, at 
an early age, he fully realized the responsibilities of his high 
office. He kept his ideal before him, and lived to see his hopes 
realized. His indefatigable application to all affairs of state, his 
judgment and penetration in the choice of ministers, his economy 
in regard to himself and magnificent liberality in everything that 
tended to the good of the people, his steady and vigorous execu- 
tion of law, and his continued watchfulness over the conduct of 
his officers, — all combined to make his reign an unparalleled 
success. In literary attainments, he proved an equal, if not the 
superior of the learned Chinese scholars of his day. He was a 
general, a statesman, a man of letters, a philosopher, and, more 
than all, an ideal man and ruler. A few of the things he accom- 
plished require special attention. 

His Patronage of Literature; Great Works Produced in 
His Reign. — When K'ang Hsi ascended the throne in 1661, there 
were many who resented the new order of things. Not a few of 
these men had held high offices under the Ming Dynasty, and 
they were leaders in thought, if not in action ; and their writings, 
as a rule, were inimical to the interests of the new dynasty. To 
permit them to poison the minds of the people was dangerous, but 
to stop them by the* arm of the law would have been a grave 
mistake. They must be won over to the side of the Emperor; 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



401 



and this, K'ang Hsi accomplished most admirably. In 1678, he 
decreed that everyone, who had the privilege of addressing- the 
Throne direct, should assist in bringing to the notice of his 
government the names of all the best scholars of the day. In this 
way, hundreds of them were brought to the notice of the Emperor, 
who held an examination fcr them in one of the imperial palaces. 
Fifty of the candidates who passed the examination were, 
without any further ceremony, admitted into the Hanlin Academy, 
and were appointed to work with others on the history of the 
previous dynasty and other works entailing much labor and 
research . 

The treatises that were compiled during K'ang Hsi's reign 
numbered hundreds of volumes, and included dictionaries, reference 
works, mathematics, and books on literature and science, all of which 
are regarded as the standard authorities by Chinese students, 
and constitute an invaluable addition 
to Chinese literature. Many of these 
works came from the pen of the 
Emperor himself, who left several 
volumes of poems and "The Sacred 
Edicts of K'ang Hsi," which was, for 
a time, perhaps the most widely read 
hook in China. By the decrees of his 
successors, a meeting was to be held 
in each village throughout the empire 
on the first and fifteenth of every 
month when the book which contains 
the germs of Confucianism was to be 
read aloud by some officials specially 
appointed for the purpose; and every 
candidate for the Hsiuts'ai (^ #) de- 
gree must be able to produce, word 
for word, from his memory, any 
given passage of the same work. The Emperor is said to have been 
the best read man of his day; and besides Chinese, he knew Latin, 




Powder blue porcelain vase, 
K'ang Hsi period 
(' Chinese Art ") 



402 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Mongolian, Tibetan, and surpassed most of his Chinese contempora- 
ries in mathematics. According to him, the word ''Algebra" signifies 
"an Eastern Process" (^2K*£); and through the principles of algebraic 
equation, he actually gave to a certain well-known Chinese mathema- 
tician the key to a Chinese book, which, up to that time, had 
remained a hidden treasure. Undoubtedly the emperor owed much 
of his knowledge to the Jesuit missionaries, who, during his reign, 
made a complete survey of the Chinese Empire. The maps they 
made form the basis of our modern maps. Up to that time, the 
Chinese knew nothing of the angular measurement of a place, and 
their maps had been anything but accurate. 

K'ang Hsi never grew tired of the company of Chinese scholars 
and felt quite at home in discussing various subjects with them. 
He always took care to show them exceptional marks of favor and 
to appeal to their support. They not only admired him, but also 
felt that he was one of them. 

Honors to the Sung Philosophers; Support of Lamaism.— 
For similar reasons, the Emperor did everything in his power to 
maintain the teachings of the Sung philosophers, or the form of 
Confucianism taught by Chu Hsi (3c M) and his school. By his 
order, the tablet of Chu Hsi was raised to a position in the Main 
Hall of the Confucian Temple, and may be seen to-day among those 
of the Shihche (+ *£) (Ten Wise Men). But the Emperor was no 
more friendly to this form of Confucianism than to Lamaism, the 
Tibetan form of Buddhism. As a matter of fact, the former is to 
the Chinese what the latter is to the Mongols. In both cases, 
religion is used by the authorities to hold the vast multitudes in 
submission. The fact that the Emperor did not hesitate to speak of 
Ei Kuang-ti {&%i&), T'ang Ping (H *$) and other adherents of 
Chu Hsi's school, who were members of his council of state, as liars, 
seems to show that he was not entirely blind to the defects of- a 
religion, or philosophy, which teaches and encourages deception. 
And at heart, he was perhaps no less antagonistic to the absurd 
belief of the Mongols. Nevertheless, so far as his purpose as a 
ruler was concerned, he was entirely successful. His Chinese 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



403 



subjects worshipped him as the greatest sage since the days of 
Confucius ; while his Mongol subjects looked up to him as the 
greatest living Buddha. 

His Travels. — During his reign of sixty-one years, K'ang Hsi 
made live tours of inspection through the provinces watered by the 
Yellow River. Ail these trips were undertaken in the interest of 
the conservancy work, which cost his government the sum of seven 
million taels annually, and for the purpose of personally studying 
the condition of the people, who had suffered considerably on 




Bridle and Saddle used by K'ang Hsi 



account of the repeated inundations. During his travels, the 
Emperor, through his tactful personality, made many friends among 
the farmers and other classes of the people, who would otherwise 
have never heard of his name, and obtained from them much 
information which proved of great value to his government. All 
his travelling expenses were defrayed out of his private purse, and 
did not, at any one place, amount to Tls. 20,000. Wherever he 
went, he met with a warm reception not only from the officials and 



404 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

gentry, but also from the farmers. The latter often prevailed en 
him to make a prolonged stay, or to visit places not included in his 
original plan. He went as far south as Hangchow in Chekiang, 
where he visited the famous West Lake (?S88).* Among his gifts 
to the people was a library which contained duplicates of every 
volume which adorned his own library in Peking. In several cases, 
his visit was followed by a total exemption of that locality from the 
land tax for the year. 

His Visit to the Tomb of Confucius. — In 1684, K'ang Hsi 
visited Chii Fou (ffl^L) in Shantung, the native place of Confucius, 
and expressed great delight in seeing his temple and his tomb. He 
left his imperial umbrella in the temple with instructions to display- 
it on the days of worship, and donated a set of bronze sacrificial 
vessels, said to date from the Shang Dynasty. About the same time, 
the estate of the Holy Duke (fix M &) was greatly enlarged. The 
honor he had thus paid to the Great Sage enhanced his own 
popularity to a great extent. 

The Exemption Decree of 1712.— The greatest monument 
to K'ang Hsi is undoubtedly his own decree of 1712, which 
attempted to settle the amount of land tax throughout the empire 
for all time to come. No amount in excess of that shown by the 
records of the previous year was to be permitted under any 
circumstances. This arbitrary settlement theoretically endures to this 
day and presents no small difficulty to those who desire to place the 
finances of the country on a more satisfactory basis. In order to un- 
derstand the situation, it is necessary to explain the taxation system 
in force under the Manchti Dynasty. This system is that of the Mings, 
and consists of a poll tax and a land tax. The latter is paid to the 
government in return for the privilege of tilling the ground, all of 
which, in theory at least, is the property of the sovereign. The 
amount accruing under such a system rises with the increase in the 
population, and the taking of the census at regular intervals becomes 



*A11 the 24 scenic places on the West Lake were named by him, and these 
names they bear to-day. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 40- 



a necessity. During the reign of Shun Chih, this was clone once in 
everv rive years; but during the greater part of the reign of 
K'ang Hsi, census returns were sent at the end of each year. They 
were, however, far from being accurate. The local magistrates, 
who were responsible to the government for the tax to be collected, 
had a strong tendency to underestimate the population. By virtue of 
K'ang Hsi's decree, all persons not included in the returns of 1711 
were permanently exempted from the payment of a poll tax. This 
tax was later entirely done away with by his successor, so that no 
Chinese had any direct tax to pay, unless he w^as the owmer of land. 
The decree of 1712 is evidence that, by his strict economy, 
K'ang Hsi was able to leave a surplus of revenue on hand; and this 
had been done in spite of his wars, public works, and imperial 
travels. 

Reception of the Russian Embassy— In 1719, a Russian 
Embassy arrived at Peking. It consisted of M. Ismaloff, the Am- 
bassador, M. de Lange, his secretary, and Mr. Bell, an English 
traveller ; and bore a letter from Peter the Great couched in the 
following terms : — " To the Emperor of the Vast Countries of Asia, 
to the Sovereign Monarch of Bogdo, to the Supreme Majesty of 
Khitay : friendship and greeting. With the design of holding and 
increasing the friendship and close relations long established between 
your Majesty and my predecessors and myself, I have thought it 
right to send to your court, in the capacity of Ambassador- 
Extraordinary, Leon Ismaloff, captain in my guards. I beg you to 
receive him in a suitable manner to the character in which he comes, 
to have as much regard for, and attach as much faith to, what he 
may say on the subject of our mutual affairs as if I were speaking 
to you myself; and also to permit his residing at your court in 
Peking until I recall him. Allow me to sign myself your Majesty's 
good friend, Peter." This letter was received in a most gracious 
manner by K'ang Hsi, who gave the Russian envoy a very honorable 
reception and set apart a house for his residence. When the question 
of the kowtow was raised, K'ang Hsi solved it in a very creditable 
manner. He had his principal minister perform the kowtow to 



400 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Peter's letter; while the Russian envoy rendered to him the same 
obeisance. Thus the audience took place without any delay. No 
foreign embassy had been received with greater honor in China. 

K'ang Hsi Disinherits His Heir.— The closing- years of 
K'ang Hsi were not at all happy. Like his contemporary, Peter 
the Great, K'ang Hsi had a rebellious and undutiful son to deal 
with. That son was Yiinyin, or Prince Lisuih. Although Yiinyin 
was the Emperor's second son in point of age, yet he was the eldest 
boy by the Empress, K'ang Hsi's wife, and hence was his father's 
heir. K'ang Hsi did everything he could to give his son an 
education becoming his position, and naturally expected to find in 
him a worthy successor. In this he was more than disappointed. 
Yiinyin was base, wilful, untruthful, extravagant, cruel, vicious 
and rebellious. In fact he was just the reverse of his father. Pie 
was seen in the company of his father's enemies and Avas ready to 
shed his father's blood. The more the father remonstrated, 
threatened, or entreated, the worse the son became. At last the 
Emperor decided that this unworthy son should not be the heir 




Fu I y ing Mausoleum 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 107 

apparent. In ihe state prison which was the only place for him, 
he was to spend the rest of his days. 

But Yiinyin's imprisonment brought no end to the Em- 
peror's domestic trouble. Whom should he now appoint as his 
successor ? Among the Manchus there was no law which seemed 
to regulate the question of succession in any way. K'ang Hsi could 
transmit his throne to any one of his twenty-one sons as he pleased. 
The brothers and half-brothers of Yunyin aspired and conspired 
for the place. During all this time their father was too sad and 
disappointed to announce any decision. This was quite natural. 
Many Chinese and Manchus preferred to think that so long as that 
question was not settled, there was danger to the throne and dynasty. 
They ventured a suggestion ; but, to their regret, they only incurred 
K'ang Hsi's displeasure. Many of them were summarily dismissed, 
and others were banished. 

Death of K'ang Hsi. — K'ang Hsi died on December 20, 1722, 
at the ripe age of sixty-nine. On his death bed he appointed his 
fourth son, who afterwards reigned under the name of Yung Cheng, 
his successor. His death removed one of the best rulers China ever 
had. 

Some Estimates of K'ang Hsi.— That Chinese historians are 
all loud in their praise of K'ang Hsi, goes without saying. It is of 
interest to see what foreign writers on Chinese history think of 
him. They of course are under no obligation to give K'ang Hsi 
undue praise. One priest wrote of him : — " This prince was one of 
the most extraordinary men who are only met with once in the 
course of several centuries. He placed no limits to his desire for 
knowledge, and of all the princes of Asia there never was one with 
so great a taste for the arts and sciences. This prince was 
not put out by the expression of an opinion different from his own, 
rare as it is for princes of his rank to tolerate contradiction." Of 
his appearance, another says : — " There is nothing in his appearance 
which is not worthy of the throne he occupies. His air is majestic, 
his figure is excellently proportioned and above the middle height, 



403 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

all the features of the countenance are regular; his eyes bright and 
larger than is usual with his nation; the nose slightly curved and 
dropping at the point; and the few marks left by the small-pox 
detract nothing from the charm which is conspicuous throughout his 
person." A laborious historian, who has translated Chinese histories 
from the earliest times to the death of K'ang Hsi, writes of him: — 
"Just posterity will beyond doubt assign to this distinguished prince 
a place among the greatest monarchs. Fully occupied between 
affairs of state, military achievements, and the study of liberal 
pursuits ; beneficent, brave, generous, wise, active and vigilant in 
policy, of profound and extended genius, having nothing of the 
pomp, or indolence of Asiatic courts, although his power and wealth 
were both immense ; the one thing alone wanting to this prince, 
according to the missionaries who have become the exponents of his 
eminent qualities, was to crown them all with the adoption of the 
Christianity of which he knew the principles and of which he valued 
the morality and the maxims, but which policy and the human 
passions prevented his openly embracing." 

If one may question the opinions coming from the pen of 
European missionaries who had benefited by his patronage, we may 
quote from one more who has not received such favors. Boulger, 
in his "A Short History of China," writes : "The place of K'ang Hsi 
among Chinese sovereigns is clearly defined. He ranks on almost 
equal terms with the two greatest of them all — Taitsong (of the 
Tang Dynasty) and his own grandson Keen (Ch'ien) Lung — and 
it would be ungracious, if not impossible, to say in what respect he 
falls short of complete equality wkh either, so numerous and 
conspicuous were his talents and virtues." 

Suffice it to add that had the Manchus produced more emperors 
of K'ang Hsi's type, the Manchu Dynasty might have endured to the 
present day. 



. OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



40'.) 



CHAPTER XLYI 

THE REIGN OF YUNG CHENG 

1. Internal Administration 

The Royal Brothers. — The new Emperor, Yung Cheng, was 
forty-five years old when he came to the throne. A rumor was 
current at the time that it was the fourteenth, and not the fourth 
son, that was named in the decree of K'ang Hsi as his successor. 
, \Ye are led to believe that this report was a mere fabrication of 
certain of the royal brothers who were disappointed at the de- 
cision of their father. These were Yiiuti (;&ji£), Yiini (^fciH), 
Yiintang (rtffif), Yiino (ftit), and Yiintih (;fc»), the 1st, 8th, 
9th, 10th, and 14th sons of K'ang Hsi respectively. They had 
conspired to secure the throne for the 8th son, or A'Ko (HU) 
(a Chinese rendering of the Manchu word "Agch" by which a 
son of an emperor of the Manchu Dynasty is commonly designated, 
unless known by the princely title bestowed 
upon him). Y f iini had been deprived of 
his titles by his father; but Yung Cheng, 
upon his accession, had all these restored to 
him, and also appointed him to a most 
responsible position in the government. 
But neither he nor his brothers were willing 
to submit to the new regime with that 
.sympathy which their brother, now the 
ruler of the empire, had a right to expect 
from them. Some of them even went so far 
as to meditate an armed rebellion. For the 
first three years of the reign of Yung Cheng, 
the relations between the Emperor and the 
royal brothers were anything but pleasant, 
and a number of them had, in consequence, 
to be imprisoned. Yiini and Yiintang, ln ^!SSS"otoS». P ^g 
who were considered more guilty than the Chen f»chi!?ese Art") 




410 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

rest, were even denied the privilege of retaining their personal 
names, the first character of which was the same as that in the 
presonal name of the Emperor. Henceforth they were to be 
known as Achilla iM ^ W) and Saissnheh (H © M) ; and death 
alone saved them from a worse punishment. The determination 
on the part of Yung Cheng in this connection is commendable. 
The interests of an empire intrusted to his care were certainly of 
greater importance than the family ties that bound him to his 
brothers. It was this feeling of duty towards the public that 
had led to Duke of Chou to sign the death warrant of his 
brothers. To permit a prince of the blood to break every form 
of law with impunity was courting the worst consequences ; 
and the action of Yung Cheng stands out as a precedent and 
example for all his successors under similar circumstances.* 

One of the Emperor's other brothers, Prince I (t&), the 
thirteenth son of K'angHsi, enjoyed his unbounded gratitude and 
confidence to the end of his life. 

The New Mode of Appointing a Successor to the throne. 
— One of the first official acts of the Emperor after he came to the 
throne, was the appointing of his fourth son to be the next 
emperor. The sealed envelope containing this appointment, 
which was in the hand-writing of Yung Cheng himself, was 
placed, in the presence of the princes and ministers of state, 
behind the sign-board of the Cheng Tai Kuang Ming Throne 
Hall (JEXJtWSk), "the highest place within the palace." A 
duplicate of this appointment, likewise in a sealed envelope, 
"to be opened only at the proper moment" was filed in the 
archives of the palace. The novel manner in which a successor 
to the throne was made by Yung Cheng was in turn carefully 
followed by his successors; and the privilege of heir apparent 
was no longer in existence. 

The Secret Service. — Owing to the agitation of Achina 
and Saissuheh, a most efficient secret service was developed during 



* The Manchus have lost their empire because they failed to follow this 
precedent when circumstances demanded it. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 411 

the brief reign of Yung Cheng. It is said that the most trivial 
deeds of his ministers were in due time reported to him. One of 
them, according to a report, was one evening playing cards with 
a number of his friends, and in the midst of the game a card was 
found to be missing. A diligent search was made but without 
success. To his surprise, the missing card was returned to him 
the next morning- by the Emperor. Thanks to the secret 
service, many publications of a seditious character were brought 
to light, and their authors and publishers were most severely 
punished. One of these books contained a libel on the Emperor 
himself, and called upon the Chinese to rise in rebellion and 
drive out the Manchus. In the course of his book, the author 
pointed out General Y T oh Chung-ch'i (f ii), as best leader for 
this general movement, partly because he had distinguished 
himself during the Kokonor Campaign, and partly because he 
belonged to a family which had given to the world General Yoli 
Fei ({&Jfc). It was largely due to the personal efforts of the 
general himself that the author of the book was discovered and 
that he and these responsible for its publication and diffusion 
were put to death. 

The Grand Council. — Of all the political changes with which 
the name of Y'ung Cheng is associated, the crganizat : on of the 
Grand Council claims the first place. This took place in connec- 
tion with the campaign against the Dzungars ; and hence its name, 
Chuinchich'u (¥$&), may be translated "Committee of National 
Defence,"' or " Council of Strategy." In 1730, the temporary 
arrangement began to take on a permanent character, and its 
authority was gradually extended to other than military matters. 
The object Yung Cheng had for making the change was to 
secure strict secrecy ; for, under the older system that required 
everything to pass through the hands of the Grand Secretariat, 
state secrets often leaked out. 

The Members of the Chunchich'u usually held other 
substantive appointments. They were recruited in most cases 
from the ranks of grand secretaries, presidents, and vice-presidents 



412 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of the Metropolitan Boards. The clerical duties were performed 
by "Assistants," or Chang Ching (# E) (a rendering of the Manchu 
word, Chan-yin). The Grand Councillors (* ¥ li), never exceeding- 
six in number, met every morning to transact business in the presence 
of the sovereign; and their chief duty consisted of the transmission 
of imperial commands to the government officials throughout the 
empire. These commands were handed to the Grand Secretariat if 
they were of general interest; but, as a rule, they were transmitted 
under sealed covers direct to the Board of War, which, under the 
older statutes, also had charge of postal affairs. This class of 
orders were known as " Secret Instructions " (f? 11) . After the 
inauguration of this system, the Grand Secretariat lost much of its 
active importance. The new arrangement was only abolished during 
the last days of the Manchu rule, when, in deference to the weight 
of public opinion, the so-called cabinet system of Europe was 
adopted. 

Another departure from old custom was an arrangement that 
required every official, permitted to address the Throne direct, to send 
his memorial in a sealed box to the Emperor, instead of filing it in 
duplicate with the Office of Transmission (lift $£), as had been the 
usage under the preceding dynasties. 

Abolition of Chinese Slavery in Its Worst Forms — 

Yung Cheng is also famous for a series of decrees that dealt with 
several of the worst forms of Chinese slavery. The first attempt in 
this direction was a decree of 1723, declaring the Yoh Chi (§gH), 
or ''persons of the musical profession," of Shansi, to be free 
citizens. The Yoh Chi were the descendants of those who refused 
to submit to Yung Lo (& IS!) of the Ming Dynasty. The male 
descendants were made bondslaves, while their wives and daughters 
became public women. This decree was followed by another in 1727 
dealing with the Pan Tang (# ^) of Huichow (# j!l), and the Shih 
Pu (ift $t) of Ning Kuo (# H) ; and still another in 1730, extend- 
ing the privilege of citizenship to the Kai Hu {*$ p) of Suchow 
(j^W), the Peng Min (8H J£) of Kiangsi, Chekiang, and Fukien, 
and also to all classes of persons along the coast who were not 



OUTLINE? OF CHINESE HISTORY 413 

permitted to live on land mid whose wives and daughters could be 
kidnapped with impunity. Owing to the existence of these classes 
of people., it was customary for applicants before they could take 
part in examination for literary degrees, to declare themselves as 
belonging to " pure and white families" (M 5fc $h 6), a legal phrase 
for those who had never been in slavery. The humane decrees of 
Yung Cheng removed many of the social inequalities that had come 
down from earlier times.. 

The Aborigines of China. — A very important event affecting 
the status of the Aborigines of China also took place in the reign 
of Yung Cheng. The Miao Min (® Jg) of China, who take up no 
small area in the provinces of Yunnan, Kweichow, Kuangsi and 
Hunan, have for ages been permitted to retain their native institu- 
tions, by testifying their allegiance to the emperor in paying periodic 
tributes. In 1726, Ortai (IB &&), Viceroy of Yunkuei, decided to 
bring them under the direct rule of the government, and his proposal 
was approved by the authorities. A sort of guerrilla warfare 
occupied the government for four years, at the end of which the 
viceroy was able to report to Peking that his work was clone. But 
in the latter days of Yung Cheng a severe rebellion broke out, which 
was not put down until the next reign. 

2. Foreign Relations 
The Treaty of Kiakhta.— The first treaty was concluded 
between China and Russia in 1627 ; but another, known as the 
treaty of Kiakhta, had been made necessary by new circumstances 
arising out of the annexation of the Khalkha country. For years, 
a sort of barter trade had been carried on between the Mongols and 
the Russians at Kiakhta (fft & IB), Urga (j£ 1i&), and other towns on 
the Mongol frontier ; and it would have been useless for the Chinese 
to try to stop it. In 1692, K/'ang Hsi gave permission to Russian 
merchants to come to Peking every third year to trade, although he 
took care to limit the number of persons who might come at any one 
time and also the length of time they might stay in Peking. As 
early as 1719, the Russian Government made known its desire to 
regulate this trade by a treaty, and sent to China an embassy 



414 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

headed by Ismaloff. In 1727, the -request, was renewed by 
Catherine I. A Chinese commission consisting of three members 
was appointed to meet the Russian envoy, Counte Sava Wladislavich, 
on the Pula (>fc tft) River; and the result was the Treaty of Kiakhta. 
" This treaty provided for the delimitation of the frontier near 
Kiakhta, for the regulation of trade, for correspondence and embas- 
sies, for the extradition of criminals, and (in Article V) arranged 
for a permanent legation in Peking where four priests (Lamas) of 
the Orthodox Russian Church and four youths and two adults, 
" to study the languages," may live. It is interesting to know that 
during the early days of the Manchu Empire, Russian intercourse 
was maintained mainly through the Mongolian Superintendency 
(J£ r§ P£) ; and in that respect she had no advantage over any of the 
Mongol khans, so far as the Emperor was concerned. 

Chinese Missions to Russia. — Russian annals record that 
two Chinese missions arrived in St. Petersburg in 1731. One of 
them had instructions to approach the Russian government with* the 
request to observe strict neutrality in the Chino-Dzungar war, which 
was then in progress; and the other was charged with the duty of 
expressing the good will and congratulations of Yung Cheng to 
Empress Anna Ivanovna (1730-1740), Chinese records, however, 
do not mention them. A private account mentions one high Man- 
chu official, who, after arriving at St. Petersburg, became a 
favorite of the Russian Empress, and did not return for many 
years. Unfortunately this account gives neither date nor the name 
of the empress. From its description of the court and the manner in 
which favorites were introduced, it suggests the court of Catherine 
the Great. The only mission to Russia, recorded by the state annals 
of China, was that of 1712. This was sent by K'ang Hsi to confer 
with the Khan of the Tourgouth (± f I #) Mongols (Russia) 
about their return to China. Tulishin (® stgji), the envoy, after his 
return, wrote a full account of his travels through Siberia, which is 
the earliest description of that country in Chinese. 

The Portuguese Embassy. — The year 1727 was a memor- 
able one because of the arrival in Peking of an embassy from 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 415 

Portugal under Alexander Metello Sougay Menzes. It accomplish- 
ed nothing beyond an exchange of presents with the Emperor. 
'"In the eyes of the Chinese, an envoy came to do homage and 
bring tribute, and it was his duty to receive his orders, and not 
to claim to negotiate conventions." According to Hsieh Fu- 
elling (I£ M $,), the only foreign envoy that was received by Yung 
Cheng after the European fashion was a legate from the Pope; but, 
like most Chinese annals, his account mentions no exact date. 

3. The Third Dzungar War 
Rebellion in Kokonor. — The remote cause of the third war 
with Dzungar was a rebellion that broke out in Kokonor in 1723. 
The rebellion was headed by one of the hereditary Daijis ( n" cj) 
of Kokonor, Iyobtsang (H b j£$) Tantsin (ft W) by name, a 
descendant of the great Gushih (IS! #£) Khan. The Kokonor 
[Mongols had been permitted to retain their tribal government, 
and many of their Daijis (Khans) had been made nobles by the 
Emperor. Now that the great Emperor K'ang Hsi was no more, 
Tantsin believed that he had nothing further to fear from China, 
and hastened to launch his ambitious plan of entirely extinguish- 
ing the authority of China and restoring the independence of 
Kokonor. He convened at Chahan (g$ ^) Tolo (^ H) Nor (?&), a 
conference of his fellow Daijis, and told them to acknowledge 
him as their master instead of the Chinese Emperor. Two of them 
refused to do so and a civil strife ensued. Having been defeated, 
the dissenters left the country to announce the news to the 
Chinese Emperor. In the meanwhile, Tantsin had succeeded in 
gaining the representative of the Yellow Church in Kokonor; and 
the result was that no less than 200,000 men, lamas and laymen, 
flocked to his standard. Pillaging parties were sent to plunder 
Sining (© ^) and other cities, and imperial messengers arriving 
from Peking were thrown into prison. In a few months the 
rebellion assumed such alarming proportions that strong bodies of 
troops had to be posted at different points to guard the approaches 
to Mongolia in the north, and Tibet in the south ; wljile a third 



416 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

division of the army had to be stationed at Turfan to prevent any 
assistance from being given by the Dzungars. The campaign 
was intrusted to Nien Keng-yao (^li) and Yoh Chung-ch'i, 
who, by a series of battles, cleared the Kansn-Szechuan frontier 
of the rebels. Winter now came on rapidly and operations had 
to be suspended on account of the intense cold. 

End of the Rebellion. — Before the mild weather returned 
General Yoh, the second in command, with 5,000 men, made a 
bold move which broke up the centre of the trouble and made 
him a national hero. He toiled day and night among his 
soldiers, now climbing up snow-capped mountains, now creeping 
along difficult paths over cliffs, and capturing here and there the 
scouts of the enemy, until he took the main body by surprise one 
morning, in the neighborhood of the Chadam (^ 3§ ^c) River. 
Thousands of the rebels, who were not slain, were glad to lay- 
down their arms and submit; and among the prisoners, Tantsin's 
mother, sister and brothers were found, but Tantsin himself, 
disguised as a woman, made good his escape into Hi. 

The direct result of the rebellion was the establishment of a 
residency-general at Sining to watch the Mongols of Kokonor. 
Thus the ambition of Tantsin cost his countrymen the privilege 
of home rule; and their descendants of to-day are still placed under 
the control of the Sining resident. 

The Expedition against Dzungar. — When the whereabouts 
of Tantsin became known, a messenger was sent to Hi to demand 
his surrender. With this demand, Tsewang Arabdan refused to 
comply; and the same was true of his son, Galdan (8g W ft) 
Tseling (H ^), who soon succeeded him at the head of Dzungarian 
affairs. Yung Cheng even wrote Tseling a personal letter, but it 
brought no better result. The Emperor became so enraged that 
he ordered two Chinese armies, one from the city of Cobdo and 
the other from Barkul (EI^), to advance on Ili in 1729. 
Taking advantage of the temporary absence of Generals Fuertan 
(if % ft) and Yoh Chung-ch'i, the commanders of the Northern 
and the Western Armies, as they were then called, Tseling made a 



OUTLINES OV CHINESE HISTORY I IT 

swoop upon Barkul, and carried away herds of horses and camels. 
In 1731 the enemy appeared before Cobdo, where the main army 
of General Fuertan was encamped. The Chinese were completely 
outgeneraled, and at Ho Tung Nor (m M ?fi), about 200 11 west of 
Cobdo, Fuertan lost the greater portion of his army and had his 
officers slain on the field. 

The Defence of Mongolia.— With the two armies tempora- 
rily disabled, the Chinese had to take the defensive. A fresh 
contingent led by the Commander-in-Chief, Prince Shih Pu, in 
person, was now sent to defend the city of Chahan {% *p) Nor 
(t&fff); and General Marsai (j| flf H), a Manchu soldier, who had 
seen much of the Desert warfare, put in command of reserves at 
Kuei-hua-chen with instructions to go wherever his services 
might be required. Later, he was transferred from Kuei-hua-chen 
to the city of Baidarik in si S 5£). 

The Sain Noin Khanate. — In spite of the line of defence 
thus established, the enemy invaded Mongolia. The credit for 
repelling them must be given to Tsereuf ($£$&), Khan of the 
Sain (H If) Noin (%5M) Tribe. Tsereuf was a brother-in-law of 
the Emperor Yung Cheng, and had seen much service during the 
former campaigns. With a well-disciplined little army of his 
own, numbering about 6,000 men, he made a stand at the 
Oteuchul, inflicted a terrible defeat on the invaders and made 
them withdraw. For this signal victory, Yung Cheng made 
him an Imperial Prince of the First Order, and raised his 
tribe to the rank of an independent khanate in Mopei (Outer 
Mongolia). The name " Sain Noin" means "a good ruler" in 
Mongol. It had been given to one of Tsereuf 's ancestors by the 
Dalai Lama. W T e therefore have four khanates in Outer Mongolia 
where there had been but three. 

The Battle of Erdeni Chao.— In 1732 the Eleuths again 
invaded Mongolia. On the bank of the Tamir (Jg$fe#), they 
captured the family of Tsereuf, who was at that time absent from 
his tent. As soon as he heard of the arrival of the enemy, he 
returned at the head of 20,000 Mongols; and, by a forced inarch, 



418 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

found the enemy on the bank of the Orhuu. With the dawn of 
the day, Tsereuf dashed upon the field, routed the invaders, and 
drove them to Erdeni Chao, or the Temple of the Eight (ft M #), 
at the foot of a mountain. Here the Eleuths were forced to 
accept battle, and were once more defeated with fearful slaughter. 
Had Prince Shih Pu only been half a general, the Eleuths might 
never have seen their home again. Both he and Marsai could 
have cut off their retreat, had they so desired. Tsereuf even wrote 
to Marsai telling him what he should do ; but, to his surprise, 
Marsai preferred to shut his 13,000 men in the city of Bardarik 
and permit the Eleuths to cross the frontier into their own 
country. These facts having been reported to Peking, Marsai 
was summarily decapitated before his own soldiers ; and Shih>Pu 
was superseded by Prince Fu P'eng (M %). 

Operations near Urumchi. — During all this time, General 
Yoh was not idle. Several times he moved in the direction of 
Urumchi, but fortune was against him ; and, towards the end of 
the year, he was sent to Peking in disgrace, his command having 
been transferred to General Chang Kuang-ssu (SB lit 10). 

The Peace of 1733.— With the coming of 1733, both China 
and Dzungar began to feel tired of the long struggle. Under the 
new commanders, the Chinese made a better showing ; but they 
realized that the time for the final conquest of Hi had not come. 
The war had already cost China Tls. 70,000,000 and was becoming 
more unpopular every day. As to the Eleuths, the war had been 
forced upon them by China. They signified their willingness to 
treat, and peace was readily patched up. The two armies on the 
Chinese frontier were disbanded, save such portions as were 
necessary to guard the approaches to Mongolia. The boundary 
question was left unsettled until 1737, or the second year of 
Ch'ien Eung, when it was agreed to make the Altai Mountains 
the dividing line between the Khalkhas on the east and the 
Eleuths on the west. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



419 



CHAPTER XLYII 
CH'IEN LUNG'S WARS AND CONCIUESTS (1736-1795) 

Conquest of Eastern Turkestan 

Accession of Ch'ien Lung. — The death of Yung Cheng occur- 
red on Oct. 7. 1735. By virtue of the Imperial Decree of 1723, the 
fourth son of Yung Cheng came to the throne under the title of 
Ch'ien Lung (f£ Pf). He continued to rule for sixty years, and was 
a worthy successor of K'ang Hsi. Ch'ien Lung manifested a thirst 
for conquest; and, under him, the Mauchu Empire attained its larg- 
est extent. The first conquest was that of Chinese Turkestan. This 
term includes the two " Routes " of the Tienshan range, which, 
for the first time since the Y^iian Dynasty, acknowledged the author- 
ity of the Chinese Emperor. 




Ci.'iex Lung 



420 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Death of Galdan Tsereng; Disorganization in Dzungar.— 

The death of Galdan Tsereng took place in 1745. For ten years 
there had been comparatively little of note in connection with the 
Central Asian question. The Khalkhas attended their herds in 
peace; the Eleuths had free access to Tibet for purposes of trade 
and pilgrimage ; and the Chinese busied themselves in restoring 
order within their own empire. But with the death of Galdan 
Tsereng, the glory of Dzungar was lost. The first to occupy his 
throne was his second son, Namuchar (^P^c+L#), a man given up 
to all sorts of wantonness and vice. A civil strife cut short the life 
of the unworthy ruler, and gave the vacant throne to Darchi(ii M *l), 
a lama, and an illegitimate child of Tsereng. Having put to death 
Namuchar's younger brother and such persons as questioned his 
claim, Darchi the usurper was in turn murdered, and the throne was 
left to one Davatsi (i§2C^0. Plots and counterplots became the 
order of the day. In the course of the Dzungar upheaval, Ch'ien 
Lung found all the help and men he needed to overthrow a nation 
which had so long defied the authority of China. 




Kniper^r Ch'ien I.ung hi nting deer 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 421 

Amusana, a Fugitive from Dzungar. — Among all the men 

ihat came to Ch'ien Lung from Dzungar, Amusana needs special 
mention. He was Khan of the Khoit (M ffi) tribe, a grandson of 
Tsewang Arabdan, and a man of great influence in Dzungar. It 
was to him that Davatsi owed his throne. In course of time, 
however. Davatsi became suspicious of the ultimate object of his 
friend and thought it advisable to get rid of him. Now the home of 
the Khoit tribe at this time was in the neighborhood of the Irtish. 
To dislodge Amusana from this place an army of 300,000 men set 
out from Hi ; and another one composed of 8,000 Ulianghai (fcM'M) 
soldiers was ordered to close in from the northeast. Resistance was 
out of the question. At the head of his own tribe, and in company 
with the chiefs of other tribes of the Elenth Mongols, Amusana took 
to flight and came eastward in 1754 to submit to the Chinese 
Emperor. At Jehol (#*• M) he and his party were received with due 
honor by Ch'ien Lung, who listened to their complaint, gave them 
new homes in the country of the Khalkhas, and vested Amusana 
with a princely title. It was clearly a piece of good fortune for the 
Chinese Emperor to have in his hands men whom misgovernment 
and personal jealousy had expelled from Dzungar. The invasion of 
Dzungar was now but a matter of time, Amusana and the other 
Eleuth chiefs having all urged it. 

Overthrow of Dzungar. — In February, 1755, two armies each 
of 250,000 men set out from China for the conquest of Dzungar. 
One of them took the northern route, and the other, the southern. 
Amusana accompanied the northern army, and Sarlair (MMffi), 
another Eleuth chief, the southern. Neither army met with anything 
like resistance. The various Eleuth tribes, through whose territory 
the invaders passed, vied with one another in their expressions of 
friendliness, and placed at their disposal animals, milk, and other 
food. On the Polo Tata (tf Hig$4), the two armies effected a 
union and five days brought them to Hi. Davatsi, unable to offer 
resistance, fled with 300 men through the Muzart Pass to Uch 
Turfan (.kMr), a Mohammedan town in Tien Shan Nan En; but 
was returned a prisoner to Hi by the Mohammedans. He was 



422 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

subsequently sent to Peking under an escort, as was also Lobtsang 
Tantsin, the rebel of Kokonor. Instead of putting him to death, 
Ch'ien Lung treated Davatsi with consideration, giving him a Manchu 
girl for a wife and a palace in which to live. Welded into a strong 
nation, Dzungar had proved a formidable foe of K'ang Hsi and 
Yung Cheng; but, broken into pieces by internal quarrels, it was 
easily subdued. Five months only sufficed to add the vast country of 
the Tarim Valley to the Chinese Empire, and this was done without 
a single battle. Who could have dreamed that in another three 
months, all this work would be lost, and that every foot of the terri- 
tory would have to be reconquered with great cost in life and money? 

Amusana Turns a Rebel. — Ch'ien Lung's plan was to revive 
the tribal system as it had existed in Dzungar before the time of 
Galdan. In other words, he wished to apportion the land among the 
four tribes of the Hleuths, substituting the Khoit for the Tourgut 
(illt), who had migrated into Russia. This plan was not 
acceptable to Amusana, who had hoped to receive the whole country 
for himself. WTien Ch'ien Lung found out his treacherous character, 
he ordered him to be brought to Jehol, and gave General Pan Ti 
(?K %), at Hi, instructions to put him to death, if necessary. To the 
Emperor's surprise and dismay, Amusana evaded the Commissioner. 
Alintsin (W.W$b), a Mongol prince, who was to take him to 
Jehol, escaped to the Polo Tata, and did everything he could to 
organize a rebellion. In the course of the rebellion, General Pan Ti 
and the Chinese garrison of 500 men were put to the sword by the 
treacherous Eleuths. For having permitted Amusana to escape, 
Alintsin was ordered to commit suicide. 

Failure of the Chinese Generals.— In 1756 a fresh army 
under Generals Chereng (%l ffl) and Yii Pao (^jfc) was despatched 
from Barkul to restore order. These Generals had Amusana shut 
up in a fort, and were on the point of capturing him, when they 
permitted themselves to be duped. Amusana caused a report to be 
sent to them representing that he himself had fallen a prisoner in 
the hands of a certain neighbouring tribe, and that the chief was going 
to deliver him to the Chinese. The generals waited as Amusana 



outlines of Chinese history 423 

expected, and ill the meantime he fled across the frontier into the 
country of the Kazaks. The Chinese generals then wrote to the 
Kazaks to surrender Amusana; but being the old friends of the 
fugitive, they would do nothing of the kind. The incompetent 
commanders were soon replaced by Tartonha (si ffl M M) and 
Hatashan (u£ s£ #), but they made no better showing. Amusana 
returned, plundered the country and once more made his escape. 

Insurrectionary Movement among the Khalkhas.— About 
this time, matters were no less grave to the east of the Altai. The 
Khalkhas had refused to furnish the necessary quota of men and 
animals for the postal stages throughout their country and threatened 
to throw in their lot with the Eleuths. The line of communication 
between Peking and the seat of war was completely broken. Neither 
reinforcements nor supplies could be forwarded from Peking, unless 
they were prepared to fight their way from the Great Wall to the 
Altai Mountains. The immediate cause of the general strike was 
the putting to death of Alintsin, one of the Khalkha princes. The 
great name of Jenghis Khan had at last failed to protect his des- 
cendant from the wrath of the Chinese Emperor ! This was too 
much for the Khalkhas who maintained the courier service. They 
could see no reason why they should submit to an Emperor who had 
no regard for their great ancestor. Owing to the agitation of the 
secret agents of Amusana, the. discontent threatened to break out 
and envelop the whole of Mongolia in a great flame of national 
indignation. Amusana himself had returned with a fresh army and 
several of the Eleuth tribes on the border, who had hitherto been 
the allies of the Chinese, now joined him. The two generals, who 
were on their way to Peking to answer for their credulity and 
incompetence, had been killed by brigands while travelling through 
the now hostile country of the Khalkhas. A general uprising in 
Mongolia might speedily have undone all the work of Ch'ien Lung 
and his predecessors with the most dreadful results. At this 
juncture, two friends came to the aid of Ch'ien Lung. They were 
the Lama of Urga and Chenkungchap, the son of the famous 
Tsereng. It was the peaceful influence of the former which 



424 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

prevented a general uprising of the Khalkhas; and the military 
strength of the latter that put down all signs of disorder. If the 
name of Nurhachu had at times failed to protect his descendants 
from the just penalties of lav;, why should that of Jenghis Khan be 
a shield to those who were no longer upon the throne of China ? 
Was not Clrien Lung the successor and grandson of that monarch 
who had provided the Khalkhas with a new home, and afterwards 
restored their original territory to them at a great sacrifice of men 
and money ? Was it not the enemies of the Khalkhas that Ch'ien 
Lung was now fighting ? By this line of argument the Living 
Buddha soon brought the Khalkhas to their senses. They returned 
to work and the courier service between Peking and Cobdo as well 
as the places beyond was restored. Thanks to the effort of Chen- 
kungchap, the ringleader of the agitation was arrested and the 
brigands were dispersed. A great danger had been averted. 

Success of General Chao Hui ; Death of Amusana ; and 
Massacre of the Eleuths.— With the restoration of peace on the 
Eastern side of the Altai, Ch'ien Lung was able to prosecute the war 
in Dzungaria with his usual energy. He also had found a man who 
could carry out his policy. That man was General Chao Hui (^ M) , 
who in the winter had found it necessary to return with his own com- 
mand of 2,500 men from Hi in order to avoid annihilation. He had 
fought all his way through a hostile country to Urumchi, where he 
had been able to hold his ground against overwhelming odds until 
succor came from Barkul. In 1757, Chao Hui was given the supreme 
command, and a fresh army under Chenkungchap was sent by the 
Northern Route to his assistance. As if to hasten the end of the 
Eleuths, smallpox, a disease hitherto unknown among them, now 
broke out in an epidemic form, and rapidly thinned the rebel ranks 
by carrying away thousands of victims. They were in no position 
to oppose the advance of the vigorous Chinese; and, after a series of 
defeats, Amusana began to see the hopelessness of his situation. 
Once more he took to flight, and crossed the frontier into Siberia. 
As Chao Hui had been instructed not to stop with anything short of 
the capture of Amusana, dead or alive, he continued to pursue him 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 425 

towards the Siberian frontier. Amusana was saved from a worse 
fate only by the dreadful disease which overtook him at Tobolsk. 
It was not until Chao Hui reported that he had seen the dead body 
of Amusana, that Ch'ien Lung consented to end the campaign in 
Dzungaria. Then followed a general massacre of the Eleuths. 
During the next two years, the unfortunate men, women, and children 
were hunted down from place to place like wild beasts ; and the 
work of wholesale slaughter was continued even after General Chao 
Hui's transfer to Kashgaria. Ch'ien Lung preferred an uninhabited 
Hi valley to having it filled with a people unresponsive to kindness 
and full of treachery. It is estimated that, of a population number- 
ing more than 200,000 families, 40% died of smallpox, 20%; found 
their way into Siberia, and 30% lost their lives at the hands of the 
victors. The remaining 10% consisted of the tribes who had been 
incorporated in the population of Jehol, and therefore had taken no 
part in the general uprising. 

Spread of Mohammedanism in Kashgar. — With the 
Eleuth tribes w<iped out of existence, there was nothing to arrest 
the tide of Chinese conquest until it had rolled over the u Route 
South of the Tienshan Mountains," or Kashgaria. For two 
centuries after the death of Jenghis Khan, this part of Chinese 
Turkestan formed part of the khanate ruled by the descendants 
<>f his second son, and the dominating element of its population 
was Mongolian. With an influx of Mohammedans from Samar- 
kand, which took place in the 15th century, everything was 
changed. The Buddhist Mongols were gradually crowded into 
Turfan, Hami, and other towns to the east, leaving their original 
home to the followers of Islam. In time the house of Jenghis 
Khan became extinct, and the ruling power fell into the hand's 
of the Khoja family. Towards the close of the next century 
Dzungaria suffered from religious rivalry between the White and 
the Black Mountaineers which laid the country open to foreign 
interference. With the rise of Dzungaria, Kashgar lost her 
independence and became a sort of dependency of the northern 
power. 



426 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Kashgar's Attempt at Independence. — The conquest of 
Dzungaria liberated two brothers of the Klioja family who had 
been imprisoned in Hi. The royal brothers, Brunit and Hodji- 
chies, believing that they had nothing to fear from the Chinese, 
made a bold attempt to proclaim the independence of Kashgaria, 
and caused the death of the agent whom Chao Hui had sent to 
negotiate terms of submission. All hope of a peaceful settlement 
was at an end. Dzungaria must be conquered or permitted to set 
up a government entirely independent of China. Ch'ien Lung, of 
course, was not a man who would agree to the latter course ; and 
so war was declared. After the first expedition had proved a 
failure, the great general, Chao Hui himself, received orders to 
march into Dzungaria in 1758. For a time it looked as if his 
effort was also doomed to fail. Intoxicated with his success in 
Dzungaria, he boldly advanced towards Yarkand with 4,000 men; 
and, on the Hara Ossu, was completely surrounded by hordes of 
Mohammedans. For three months, his brave men behind the 
line of earthworks depended solely upon dead horses and camels, 
and such prisoners as they were able to take, for fcod. Even 
this supply was threatening to run short, when succor came in 
1759. Chao Hui was then extricated from his perilous position, 
and went to Aksu to await reinforcements. With the coming of 
the next year the end of the campaign was in sight. Not only had 
reinforcements arrived in sufficient numbers at Aksu to enable 
operations to be resumed simultaneously against Kashgar, Yar- 
kand and Hotend, the three strongest centres of opposition ; but 
the old relegious feud had also revived among the Mohammedans. 
City after city fell, and the two brothers were pursued across the 
frontier. Through fear of the Chinese, the Badashan tribes into 
whose territory Brunit and Hodjichies had fled for shelter, killed 
them and sent their heads to the conquerors. The Kirghis, the 
Kazaks, the Brunit, and the Khokedians, awed by the strength 
of China, all gladly enrolled themselves among her vassals. 
When Chao Hui and his colleagues, Generals Akuei (H£fe), 
Chu Heteh (018), Futa (gH) and others, returned to Peking 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 427 

with their commands, Ch'ien Lmng out of gratitude went to 
Liang Hsiang (H*fR) to receive them, and ordered artists to paint 
their portraits on the wall of Tze Kuang Ko, one of the Imperial 
Throne-halls in Peking. 

The Government of Chinese Turkestan. — The government 
established in Turkestan after the conquest was necessarily one of 
the pure Manchu type. The highest authority was a military 
governor, residing at Hi ; or, to be more specific, in a fortified 
town adjoining the site of Kuldja on the Hi River, and known in 
Chinese as Hui Yiian Ch'eng (1^1*$). In the Hi region, five divisions 
cf military colonists were established. These were drawn from 
the following sources; viz., Manchus from the Capital, Solon 
(5^ 1m) Manchus from the region of the Amur, Sibe (Hi f&) Mongols 
from the Jehol region, and Chahars and Eleuths, each under the 
commander of a division. Towards the close of the reiom of 
Ch'ien Lung, in addition to the batches of Chinese criminals, large 
bodies of Chinese settlers were also secured from the Mohammedan 
population of Kansu and Shensi. The Military Governor was 
assisted by three deputy governors, located at Hi, Tarbagatai and 
Yarkand. 

The authority of the Deputy Governor at Yarkand covered the 
whole of the southern province or Kashgaria. In civil matters, he 
was assibted by a number of Begs (ffi 3E), or local Chieftains, who 
acted as civil magistrates, tax collectors or judicial officials. The 
Mohammedans of the Hami and the Turfan regions, being of 
Mongol descent, have no Begs among them, but live under an 
organization similar to that of their brethren in Mongolia proper. 
Their chiefs have the titles of the Imperial Nobility. In 1764 
a rebellion against misgovernment and extortion took place in Uch 
Turfan ; and, when peace was restored, the Deputy Governor was 
transferred from Kashgar to that city. 

Government of the Ulianghai Mongols. — After the 
breaking up of the Dzungar power, a number of Mongol tribes, 
occupying a stretch of territory called Ulianghai, gladly submitted 



42S OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

to tiit- Empenjr. They were organized into three divisions, viz., the 
Tangnu (Jg %) Ulianghai (femU), the Altai (Hfl) Ulianghai 
\&mm and the Altai (HSI) Nor (Hf) Ulianghai (&*&&). 
They were governed through the Military Governor of Uliasutai and 
the Deputy Governor of Colxlo. The former had under him four 
other deputies in the persons of a prince from each of the four 
khanates of the Khalkhas. Each of these., in turn, resided for three 
months at Uliasutai. 

The Return of the Kalmucks.— The term, "Kalmucks," 

by which the Eleuths are known to the Russians and other 
Europeans, is not found in Chinese. Their migration into 
Siberia, as already mentioned, dated as far back as the time of 
Galdan ; when, on account of the aggressions of their neighbors, 
they were obliged to quit their home in the Tarbagatai region . 
They settled in a vast stretch of territory close to the Caspian 
Sea, between the Ural and the Volga, and soon had every reason 
to regret the change. The Chinese records show that as early as 
1712, their Khan contemplated a return to China. Being aliens 
in both race and religion, their life in Russia was miserable. 
Their men were pressed into service to defend the border against 
the frequent incursions of the Eesghians, who lived beyond the 
Kisliar. Besides the number of men and horses they were 
required to furnish the Russian Government, they were subjected 
to all sorts of extortion at the hands of the local tax collectors. 
Even their chiefs were treated with indignity. Finally, their 
Khan, Ubashi (iHE$&), decided to quit his adopted country 
and return to the land of his ancestors. Preparations for this 
journey were made with a secrecy which concealed them from 
Russia's knowledge; and on the 16th of December, 1770, about 
170,000 men, women, and children left the Volga, with an 
immense number of cattle. In the course of their long journey 
the Kalmucks were frequently obliged to defend themselves 
against the Cossos, the Kirghis and other hostile tribes. When 
they reached their old home in the following August, they had 
lost more than half of their number, by incessant warfare. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 129 

fatigue, and sickness. To their delight an abundance of food 
and clothing were given to them on their arrival, and tracts of 
land were assigned them in both Hi and Cobdo. In the Emperor 
Ch'ieu Lung, they had found a true friend, who, it is claimed, spent 
no less than Tls. 200,000 for their comfort. They were organized 
into two divisions; the adherents of Ubashi were to be known as 
the old Tourgut, and those of Sereng, who had left the country 
more recently, as the new Tourgut. 

Catherine was indignant when she heard of this unexpected 
event which left such a large empty tract in the Russian Empire ; 
but she had only the local governors to blame. As Russia was 
then at war with Turkey, she could not afford to have trouble 
with China at the same time. Catherine therefore quietly 
accepted the explanation of Ch'ien Lung, that the Kalmucks were 
not fugitives within the meaning of the Kiakta Treaty. 



430 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER XLVIII 
CH'IEN LUNG'S WARS AND CONQUESTS— {Continued) 

Establishment of China's Authority in Tibet 

Introductory. — The position of Tibet in Chinese history is 
truly unique. Asa rule, China's policy in regard to her depend- 
encies was to interfere as little as possible with their internal 
administration. But in the case of Tibet, her policy has been 
quite different. In temporal as well as religious matters, the 
hand of Peking has been directly felt since the time of Ch'ien 
Lung. During his reign there took place in Tibet a series of 
events all of which combined to tighten the hold of China 
upon her. The policy adopted by Ch'ien Lung and faithfully 
adhered to by his successors has, as a matter of fact, been forced 
upon China. In order to understand the situation, it is necessary 
to mention a little incident that had occurred before Ch'ien Lung 
came to the throne. 

Annexation of Tibetan Territory. — In 1724 Tibet, or 
more particularly the Anterior Section, was the scene of a civil 
strife. The outcome of this internal trouble was the appoint- 
ment of two Chinese to reside in Tibet ; and the annexation by 
China of a part of the territory. In the territory annexed, the 
two important towns of Batang (E^) and Litang (M$k) have 
been made part and parcel of Szechuan province ; and the two 
sub-prefectures of Chungtien («J» ^7) and Weihsi (H ©) have been 
added to Yunnan province. 

Rebellion of 1750. — Twenty-six years after the annexation, 
the Tibetans made a further attempt at revolt. The rivalry 
between the Emperor in Peking and the Khan of Hi was then 
very acute. The latter had spared no effort to undermine 
China's influence in Tibet and to make the people believe that 
her suzerainty was really a curse instead of a blessing. As a 
consequence, an uprising took place and the two Chinese residents 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 1:>1 

and their retinue were mercilessly butchered.* This tragedy 
naturally incensed Ch'ien Lung, who soon hurried his soldiers 
into Tibet. When peace was once more restored, the Chinese 
garrison in Tibet was greatly increased, and all rocds between 
that country and Dzungaria w T ere guarded bv Chinese soldiers. 

Effect of the Overthrow of Dzungaria.— The complete 
overthrow of Dzungaria in 1757 left Ch'ien Lung in undisputed 
possession of Tibet. The great temples of Hi, rivalling those of 
Peking, Tolon Nor (£H&*ft), and Urga (J$ 1&) in architectural 
splendour and wealth, could no longer become the centres of 
intrigue against him. The famous monastery (HI W^l), in which 
had been housed so many hostile lamas, was now a heap of ruins. 
The Tibetans had ceased to be a warlike people. Without 
foreign instigation, the people w r ere as peaceful and submissive 
as the Emperor could find in any part of his empire ; and they no 
longer looked upon him with feelings of mistrust. As evidence 
of the esteem in which he was held by the Tibetans, we may 
mention the visit of the Panshen Lama to China in 1780. 

The Death of the Sixth Panshen Lama in Peking. — 
This Panshen Lama was the sixth since the creation of that office. 
He came to China for the purpose of attending the celebration of 
the seventieth anniversary of Ch'ien Lung's birthday, and was 
received with royal honors at Jehol, where a monastery built on 
the plan of the Potala Palace, was set apart for his residence. So 
pleased was the Emperor with his modesty, that he invited him 
to come to Peking and make a prolonged stay. This .invitation, 
the Panshen Lama accepted, and accompanied his generous host 
to Peking. To the regret of Ch'ien Lung, he had an attack of 
smallpox in the Hsihwangssu (® M ^F) Temple, Peking, and died. 
In the following year, his remains, together with the gifts with 
which he had been loaded by the Chinese court and by the 
faithful of Mongolia and China (representing a market value of 
not less than a million taels), were conveyed into Tibet. 



* The residents were Fu Chlng (-($ -ffi) and Laptung (£4 ^ ffc), both 
Manchus. To commemorate their death, a temple known as Shuangchungtzu 
(M & S5) w as built in Tibet by order of Ch'ien Lung. 



432 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 







Potala Miao, Jehol (Fac-simile of that at I„hasa.) (" Tramps in Dark Mongolia ") 

The Goorkhas in Nepal. — Tibet is separated from Nepal by 
the mighty Himalayas. Nepal was ruled by three separate kings 
until the year 1769 when the Goorkha Chief, Prithi Narayan, 
established his supremacy. The Goorkhas were good fighters, 
and cared little for trade, but had a strong desire for plunder. 
They made frequent raids into both Tibet and India. The 
Tibetans could never take care of themselves. Fifty years before 
their danger had come from the northern side of the Prejevalsky 
Range; but now it came from the southern side of the Himalayas. 

First Invasion of Tibet by the Goorkhas.— When the 
great wealth of the Panshen Lama was safely conveyed into Tibet, 
a question arose as to its proper disposition. As the gifts had 
been conferred on the deceased Lama personally, his two surviv- 
ing brothers were unwilling to have them go to the Church. 
One of the brothers was the state treasurer in Tibet and 
naturally had the advantage over the other who belonged to the 
Red Church. In dividing the deceased brother's estate, the 
former not only received the lion's share, but also tried to deprive 
the latter of his just portion. They could not agree. At length 
he who had been cheated left the country for Nepal. He told the 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 433 

Goorkhas how weak the defence of Tibet was and what an in- 
calculable amount of wealth the monasteries contained. In short, 
he furnished them with the plan for invading Tibet. Encouraged 
by his representations, the Goorkhas crossed the Tibetan frontier 
in 1790, and drove the frontier guards before them. The 
commandant of the Chinese garrison, instead of taking measures 
to prevent their inroad, began to negotiate and promised the 
invaders an annual tribute of 15,000 taels. He never intended 
to keep his word. 

Second Invasion of the Goorkhas. — The first year's tribute 

fell due in 1791, but no money was forthcoming. The Goorkhas 
enraged by bad faith, and spurred by their desire for plunder, 
now came in great numbers to overrun Tibet. Through the 
Kirong and Kuti Passes the highlanders advanced and carried 
every thing before them up to Teshilumbo. No resistance was 
attempted by the Tibetans or by the Chinese garrison. The 
Panshen Lama fled at the first sign of danger to seek shelter at 
Lassa, and every monastery of note in Farther Tibet was 
mercilessly looted. Even Lassa was thrown into a great panic. 
In the hour of excitement, the chief Amban even proposed to 
transfer both the Dalai Lama and the Panshen Lama to Sining, 
and thus leave the whole of Tibet to its fate. Fortunately his 
proposition was overruled by Ch'ien Lung who, upon the receipt 
of the news, ordered General Fu K'ang-an to the scene of trouble 
with an army of 70,000 men. This army arrived at its destina- 
tion in 1792. The Goorkhas had come thinking that China 
would not fight; and, after having gratified their desire for 
plunder, had sent one half of their men to carry their loot home. 
The first thought of the remaining half, in the presence of a 
superior Chinese force, was their home. They retreated, but 
before they gained the passes, the Chinese overtook them. On 
the plain of Tengri Maidan, outside the northern entrance of the 
Kirong Pass, a battle took place. Although the Goorkhas fought 
with their usual courage, the result was a Chinese victory. 



434 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Invasion of Nepal. — It was now the turn of Nepal to 
experience the horror of a foreign invasion. General Fu K'ang- 
an followed up his success with such swiftness that the Goorkhas 
suffered much loss during their flight. The forts guarding tlie 
mountain defiles were one by one captured, and the Goorkhas 
who defended the passage over a chasm at Rassoa, halfway 
between Kirong and Daibung, were once more put to flight. At 
lengh General Fu at the head of 40,000 found himself within 20 
miles of Khatmander. To his surprise, the Goorkhas, after so 
many defeats, had still courage to make a final stand. With 
their fragments of an army, the Goorkhas King took up a strong 
position on the Sadi. In order to drive his men to assault the 
Goorkha position, it is stated that Fu K'ang-an had to turn his 
guns upon them, with the result that a large number of the 
enemy as well as many of his own soldiers were swept over a 
precipice. After this defeat, the Goorkha King asked for peace. 
As General Fu had to return before the mountain passes were clos- 
ed up by snow, he was also ready for peace. The Goorkhas took an 
oath not to molest their Tibetan neighbors again, to acknowledge 
the Chinese Emperor as their suzerain by sending periodical 
tribute, and to restore the plunder they had carried home from 
Tibet. Until a very late date, the Rajah of Nepal has faithfully 
carried out the obligations of the treaty by sending an embassy 
with tribute to Peking. The gratitude of the Tibetans was un- 
bounded, and they willingly surrendered their home rule to the 
Manchus. 

Chinese Administration in Tibet. — The form of govern- 
ment that was instituted in Tibet after the Goorkha war has 
continued until recent years. At the head of this system stood 
the Imperial Resident and Assistant Resident, selected commonly 
from the superior officers of the Manchu Banners. They were 
allowed the privilege of addressing the Throne direct, of acting as 
the medium of communication between the Chinese Government 
on the one hand and the Tibetans and Nepalese on the other, 
and of discharging duties under the direction of the Li-Fan Yuan, 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 435 

or [Mongolian Snperintendency. The Viceroy of Szechuan, owing 
to the proximity of his province, was also responsible for the 
government in Tibet and for all expenses in connection there- 
with. These were defrayed from the provincial treasury of Sze- 
chuan. His advice was always eagerly sought by the residents who 
corresponded with him on a footing of equality. Appointments 
to the principal civil and military offices of the Tibetan Govern- 
ment and Hierarchy were made on the nominations submitted by 
the Residents, who were also invested with the supreme command 
of both the Chinese garrison troops and Tibetan soldiery, the 
latter being designated in the Imperial Institutes as Fanping 
('# £;-)• The Residents also provided for a corps of 1,500 Chinese 
troops and a force of 64,000 native soldiers, of whom 14,000 are 
described as cavalry. The native soldiers were chiefly undrilled, 
and poorly armed village militia. 

The civil government was administered by a council of four 
Kablons under the immediate supervision of the Residents. 
These were usually not soldiers ; but superior officers of the 
Tibetan army were eligible to the office. Below the Kablons 
there were Treasury, Justice and Police departments and other 
minor offices held by Tibetans nominated by the Residents. 

Abuses in Choosing Avatars ; The Drawing of Lots. — 

The most important duty of the Residents was perhaps in 
connections with the election of the Dalai and Panshen L,amas. 
As already explained, the succession in each case is governed by 
a process of "re-embodiment." According to a very old tradi- 
tion, when Tsongapa commanded his two disciples to be born 
again generation after generation, he predicted that the process of 
re-embodiment would cease after the sixth generation. Never- 
theless the practice has been kept up, and the relatives, or 
members of the household of each successive pontiff, contrive, by 
acts of more or less open fraud, to indicate the individual whom 
they wish to elect as the new Avatar. Under such circumstances 
the intervention of the Chinese Emperor became necessary, and 
has gradually extended so as to include the cases of all the lesser 



436 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



dignitaries of the Tibetan church. At cne time, the Tsep- 
tsandampa of Urga died when the wife of the Tushektu Khan was 
pregnant ; and his relatives caused it to be announced that the 
child to be born, according to miraculous signs, would be the 
Avatar. To their disappointment the child turned out to be a girl. 
Evidences of fraud were so glaring in this case that even the 
thoughtless Mongols began to question the theory of re-embodi- 
ment. An opportunity had at last come to the Chinese Emperor to 




Tibetan Prayer Mill 

assert his authority in the ecclesiastical affairs of both Tibet and 
Mongolia, and Ch'ien Lung was not slow to grasp it. In 1792 he 
ordained that in the future the ecclesiastical officers of the 
Tibetan church should be determined by the drawing of lots, the 
Dalai and Panshen Lamas not being excepted. 

In pursuance of this decree, at the demise of each Dalai 
Lama, enquiries are made by the priesthood to ascertain if any 
miraculous signs have been observed at the birth of children 
about that time. Particulars of the required kind are transmitted 
to the Residents, and by them to Peking. On the day appointed 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 437 

for the purpose, the names of the candidates are inscribed on 
pieces of wood, carefully sealed and deposited in the "golden 
urn M (^ M E M) provided by the Emperor Ch'ien Lung. The 
name drawn forth from this urn in the presence of the Residents 
is hailed amidst universal rejoicing as that of the new incarna- 
tion. The Lama thus declared to have come forth in re-embodi- 
ment is necessarily a child. After a short period cf instruction, 
he is solemnly " enthroned " (ife W.)] and during his long ensuing 
minority, he remains, as a matter of course, a puppet in the 
hands of the Residents. No person hostile to the interests of the 
Chinese government could ever hope to secure the appointment. 

The same device is used in the case of the Panshen Lama 
and other spiritual dignitaries. With such dignitaries as do not 
fall within the jurisdiction of the Tibetan Government, the draw- 
ing of lots is performed, under the regulations prescribed by Ch'ien 
Lung, in the Yung Ho Kung (HI ftl ^), at Peking. This palace 
was occupied by his father, when a prince, and afterwards 
converted into a gorgeous monastery. Here resides the Chang 
(#) Chia (M) Hutukhtu (nf M ~& ffl > , the Metropolitan Lama and 
head of the Lamaist Organization at Peking. The first Chang 
Chia Hutukhtu, a disciple of the Fifth Dalai Lama, came to visit 
K'ang Hsi towards the close of the 17th century. He had been 
assigned a residence at Tolou Nor; but? by a decree of Ch'ien Lung 
his successor was removed from Tolon Nor to Peking. 

The only spiritual dignitary that is exempted from the opera- 
tion of the decree of 1792, is the Chakhan (^ $1) Nomen Han 
(Hi IN rf) of Kokonor, who is also the hereditary dzassak (ft M $L) 
of cue of the Banners of the Tumeds (±3$4#), claiming descent 
from Manchusri Hutukhtu. By virtue of Ch'ien Lung's decree 
of 1794, the line of succession in his case is allowed to be restrict- 
ed to members of the same family. 

Government of the Lamas. — According to statistics com- 
piled by the Mongolian Superintendency in 1737, there were 3,150 
monasteries, 302,500 lamas, and 121,438 families of laymen, subject 
to the jurisdiction of the Dalai Lama; and 327 monasteries, 13,700 



438 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

lamas and 6,752 families of laymen, subject to the jurisdiction of 
the Panshen Lama. The number of hutukhtus recognized by the 
Imperial Institutes, and registered with the Mongolian Superinten- 
dency, is 160, distributed as follows : in Tibet 30, including 12 who 
are known by the distinctive appellation of Shaburung &> ft H), in 
Northern Mongolia 19, in Southern Mongolia 57, in the Kokonor 
region 35, and in Chamdo (on the Szechuan Border) 5. In and 
about Peking there are finally fourteen representatives of this class. 
Members of the Peking organization were liable to be sent under 
orders from the Throne for service at monasteries in Mukden, 
Tibet, Jehol, Tolon Nor, Hi, Wutaishan (31 is \h) in Shansi, and 
Moukung T'ing (1* #/ II) in Szechuan. The Dalai and Panshen 
Lamas and Tseptsandampa have to send tribute to Peking every 
year, and have to pay a personal visit whenever required. The 
lamas of Mongolia are arranged in six classes and must present 
themselves for audience every year; while those of Szechuan, are in 
four classes and present themselves every three years. Lamaseries 
are established at the Imperial Mausolea - at Peking and Mukden 
where services are continually performed in honor of the deceased 
sovereigns. Lamas may be promoted or degraded like officials. 
When one is accused of an offence he loses his status as lama, but 
it may be restored to him only upon the establishment of his 
innocence. 

The Policy of Isolation.— Since the year 1792, a policy of 
isolation has been successfully maintained in Tibet. Until a very 
recent date, no foreigners have been allowed to penetrate into the 
country. The movements of lamas and 
pilgrims are all regulated by passports. 
Before 1792 strangers had been per- 
mitted to go freely through the passes 
that lead into Tibet. In the first half 
of the fifteenth century, a friar went to 
Tibet from China and resided at Lassa. 
A Portuguese missionary penetrated twice 
into Tibet in 1675 and 1676, and was Tibetan tamas 




OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 439 

well received by the Buddhist priests there. In the following 

century other missionaries visited the capital from India. A Catholic 
mission was even founded at Lassa under the direction of Orazio 
della Penna, who resided in the country no less than 22 years. 
A Jesuit missionary, who was in Lassa from 1716 to 1721, records 
his admiration for the order and restraint of the Chinese soldiery 
who took possession of the city in 1720. 

Lassa. — Lassa is at once the capital of Tibet and the "Buddhist 
Rome." As already stated., the residence of the Dalai Lama is 
fixed at Mount Potala, which is one of their Sacred Mountains. 
.According to the Buddhist legends, the original Sacred Mountain 
being situated in India, while a third is off the coast of Chekiang. 
On the two tree-lined avenues leading from the city to the Lama's 
palace, the faithful may constantly be seen counting their long 
rosaries between their fingers; while prelates of the court, magnifi- 
cently clothed and mounted on richly caparisoned horses, pass 
proudly in the midst of the multitudes. The palace of Potala is 
itself an assembly of fortifications, temples, and monasteries sur- 
mounted by a dome which is entirely covered with gold plates. It 
is surrounded by a peristyle whose columns are also gilded. The 
present edifice was reconstructed by K'ang Hsi to replace the one 
destroyed by the Eleuths. It is filled with treasures accumulated 
since the days of Srongtsam Gampo and representing the gifts of the 
faithful of Tibet, Mongolia and China. The most famous places 
in Lassa, • after the Potala Palace, are the two temples of Ta Chao 
f k W) and Hsiao Chao Oh ffl)", or Greater and Lesser Temples,* both 
of which date from the time of the Chinese alliance in the seventh 
century. Ta Chao, in particular, is celebrated for the image of the 
Princess of Wen Ch'eng (3c J&) which it contains. The image and her 
companion from Xepal are now worshipped as among the chief 
divinities of the Lamaist pantheon. For a long time after 1724, this 
monastery was used as a place of conference between the Chinese 
Residents and the Lamas. 



* The word •'• Chao" signifies in Tibetan a temple. 



440 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Some Tibetan Customs. — Undoubtedly the most interesting 

custom among the Tibetans is the practice of polyandry. The 
eldest son presents himself at the house of his bride in his own 
name as well as in the name of all his brothers. As soon as a piece 
of butter is placed on the foreheads of the pair to be married, the 
ceremony is valid for all the groom's brothers. This ceremony is 
necessarily a civil one. for priests are obliged to remain at a distance 
from women and can take no part in it. Polygamy is also practiced. 
If a man marries the eldest daughter of a family all her sisters 
become his wives. If he marries the next to the eldest, all her 
younger sisters become his wives, and so on down the line. 

When a person dies, his remains are kept for days and even 
weeks if the family is rich. Priests must be consulted and they 
decide as to whether the deceased shall be buried, burned, thrown 
into the current of a stream, or exposed on a rock to feed dogs, 
birds and beasts of prey. The greater portion of the property of the 
deceased goes to the church. A Tibetan pays more to the Lama 
than to the State. The people are very polite, and when two meet 
i hey salute each other several times by sticking out their tongues and 
scratching their right ears. Sometimes they even exchange scarfs 
of white or pink silk, covered with embroidery representing flowers 
and a sacred formula of six magic syllables. These are " Om Mani 
padome houm," which have been translated as " O jewel in the lotus* 
thus may he be." This sacred inscription is found almost everywhere/ 
on the walls of houses and temples, on colossal statues rudely hewn 
in the rocks, and on prayer wheels. It is also found in the Yung 
Ho Kung at Peking and other monasteries in China and Mongolia. 
According to the Tibetan belief, whosoever turns the prayer 
wheels will have marks of merit entered to his credit, as if he had 
said the prayer as many times as he turns the wheel. He who 
makes them also gets special credit for his work. At places even 
the forces of nature, the wind and the water, are made to repeat in 
a similar manner the words of prayer in behalf of man. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



441 



CHAPTER XLIX 
CH'IEN LUNG'S WARS AND CONQJJESTS— (Continued) 

China's Relations with the Aboriginal Tribes 

Who the Aboriginal Tribes Are. — As stated in a previous 
chapter, the present race of China, the "Sons of Han," is 
supposed to have come into this country four thousand years ago. 
The Chinese were not the first occupants of 
the rich valleys of the Yellow and Yangtze 
Rivers. Through ages of fighting and assimila- 
tion, they succeeded in driving the aboriginal 
tribes into the inaccessible fastnesses in the 
south and southwest of China Proper, and 
into the Indo-China Peninsula. The rep- 
resentatives of the former inhabitants are 
now found, for the most part, in Kueichow, 
Szechuan, Yunnan, Kuangtung, Kuangsi, and 
the Island of Hainan. Some of them are 

ivery warlike and make constant head-hunting 
I | raids upon their more peaceable neighbors. 

They have their own chiefs, languages, 
customs, and manners. For thousands of 
^ .few years, the hilly nature of their country has 

kept them separated from the Chinese civiliza- 
tion which flourishes in the surrounding 
plains. It must be remembered that in 
Yunnan and Kueichow there once existed the Nan Chao Empire, 
and that when it was broken up, the aboriginal tribes merely 
retired into the mountain fastnesses and left the rich valleys to 
their conquerors. They have never ceased to be a source of trouble 
to the Chinese. 

The aboriginal tribes are generally known in Chinese history 
as Miaotzii (& *) and Mantzii (W *) ; and the difference between 




A Chinese Slian Soldier 



442 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

them is that the latter have some form of settled government 
while the former have none. The Tung (H) and the Li 
(31) of Kuangtung and Kuangsi, the Yao (*g) of Kueichow and 
Hunan, the Po (£!) and the Shengfan (&j$) of Szechuan, and 
the Lolo (&$&) and the Pai-i (&%) of Yunnan, all belong to the 
family of the Miaotzu. The branches of the Mantzii are more 
numerous, and first appear in the history of the Han Dynasty 
about the time of the Martial Emperor ($1 b£ tfr). 




Jingal-men. (Mt. tribes of Szechuan). (Birch) 

The Tussiis. — In most cases, the aboriginal tribes are placed 
under hereditary Tussiis (± P]), or native governors. These are 
of two classes; Hsiian Wei (j£JS), Hsiian Fu dCUl), Chao T'ao 
(IS If), and An Fu (3? Jfe) form the military class, while Tufu 
(±/ft), Tuchow (zh'Jtl), and Tuhsien (± W make up the civil. 
All of these are called Tussu, and the system dates as far back as 
the Yiian (jc) Dynasty. Most of their governors, however, are 
not members of their own race, but Chinese from distant 
provinces. It is stated that these are either the descendants of 
Chinese officials who were banished to their country, or of the early 
conquerors. The Tussus testify their allegiance to the Chinese 
Kmperor by paying nominal tribute. The government makes no 
attempt to interfere with their internal administration so long as 
they do not become troublesome. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 443 

Their Territory and Number. — The Imperial Institutes 
give the total number of Tussiis in China as 557. Szeehuan heads 
the list with 269. It is estimated that in the provinces of Hunan, 
Kueichow, Kuangsi, Yunnan, and Szeehuan, the Miaotzii and 
other tribes occupy an area of country fully equal to that of 
France, and have a population extending into the millions. 

Their Kinship to the Burmese and Siamese.— Some 

people think that these aborigines have come into China from 
Burma and the surrounding territory. At any rate, their features 
are so similar to those of the inhabitants of the Indo-China 
Peninsula that they may all be considered as belonging to one 
family. 

The Question of the ' ' Bestowal of Rights of Citizen- 
ship." — When the Manchus came into China, they had no time to 
give the aborigines much serious thought. Consequently the Tussu 
system was continued, and all Miaotzu and Mantzii tribes were 
placed under the jurisdiction of the Princes of Ping Hsi i 2 ^ pi) and 
Ching Xan 0| $|). In 1726, the fourth year of the reign of Yung 
Cheng, the viceroyalty of Yiin-kuei was in the strong hands of 
Ortai (H$"M#), a Manchu, who enjoyed the full confidence of the 
Emperor. He told his sovereign that the administrative plan of 
the empire, so far as the aboriginal tribes were concerned, was 
badly in need of revision. As the case was then, several districts 
( Tufu ± jff) where the aborigines abounded were subject to the 
jurisdiction of the Viceroy of Szeehuan, although they were far 
removed from Chengtu. Ortai argued that they should have 
been placed under him, and that as far as possible all aborigines 
should be under the direct control of the government. The 
change he advocated was known as Kai Tu Kuei Liu (eit± H ik)> 
or the bestowal of the rights of citizenship. As his advice was 
followed, the districts in question were added to the province of 
Yunnan ; and he was also given full powers over the province of 



444 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 




A Military Outpost. (Gorst) 



Kuaugsi. The different 
districts to be conquered 
were then assigned to 
different commanders. 
The work of recon noiter- 
ing was first begun in the 
province of Kueicliow. 
There, after years of 
guerrilla warfare, all the 
country around Kuchow 
(# ')]]), then a strong centre 
of aboriginal population, 
was brought under the 

direct rule of the Government; and more than 2,000 forts scatter- 
ed along the eastern, southern and western borders of the province, 
accepted the new condition of affairs without much struggle. 
The greater half of what is now the Kueicliow province was thus 
conquered in the name of the Tach'ing Dynasty. In Yunnan prov- 
ince, all the country along the banks of the Lants'ang Chiang 
(M ?£ U) was cleared of hostile tribes; and many Tussus of Kuaugsi 
were made to give up their fiefs. In 1731, Viceroy Ortai w 7 as 
created an earl and summoned to Peking, where he was appointed 
Grand Secretary. His new appointment necessarily kept him 
away from the field of his recent labours. 

The Miaotzu Trouble of 1735.— In 1735, the last year of 
the reign of Yung Cheng, the aborigines of Tai-kung (H &), Kuei- 
cliow (j| >)]]), showed signs of unrest. The immediate cause was the 
exactions of the local officials. The case of the Miaotzu had 
become so desperate that most of them killed their own wives and 
children before they raised the standard of rebellion, and were ready 
to die in defence of their homes. In a short time, the rebellion 
spread over what is now the prefectures of Li-p'ing (H ¥) and 
Tu-yun (U £j). The commanders sent to cope with the situation 
were not able to agree upon a policy; and many of the ministers in 
Peking were inclined to grant the insurgents all their old territory, 



OUTLINES OF CHIKESE HISTORY 



445 



provided they would lay down their arms. Such was the state of 
affairs when the Emperor Ch'ien Lung came to the throne. He 
would listen to no advice which tended to show the weakness of the 
Government. He dismissed all those who had been sent to suppress 
the rebellion, and ordered General Chang Kuang-ssii Ogj^HB), a 
commander who had served under Ortai with credit, to the 
scene of trouble. Soldiers from seven different provinces poured 
into Kueichow, and in less than a year the rebellion was at an 
end. At Niup'i-Ta-Ch'ing (t^^cf), a fearful massacre took 
place. Here the insurgents, after their various unsuccessful en- 
counters with the government troops, had gathered together for a 
final stand, thinking that the unhealthful condition of the place 
would make it impossible for the Chinese to follow up their 
advantages. But General Chang's orders were peremptory; and it 
is estimated that as many as eighteen thousand were slain and twelve 
hundred forts, small and great, were destroyed. Four years later 




A Mantzu Village 



41(5 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

another outbreak occurred in Hunan and Kuangsi, and the same 
general once more distinguished himself, although the work of sup- 
pression, as in the former case, was attended by much bloodshed. 

The First Campaign Against Tachinch'uan. — In 1746 
the next outbreak of importance took place in the western part of 
the province of Szechuan. This part of the country, marked as 
Moukungt'ing (UK #/ H) on our recent maps, had once formed an 
integral part of Tibet, — a fact which accounts for its Buddhist 
population. The leading tribes were the Ts'uch'in (f£ ?!) and the 
Tsuanla, (it tft). signifying, respectively, the Large and the Small 
River. The streams referred to are the Tachinch'uan (^c^jil) 
and the Hsiaochinch'uan (>h^JiI), the latter being one of the 
affluents of the former. Hence the tribes are known in Chinese by 
the names of the rivers. By matrimonial alliances, and by constant 
intertribal wars, Solopan (^M^), chief of the Tachinch'uan, 
gradually extended his sway over all the neighboring tribes of 
Tachienlu (3T ™r iM), and had several times defeated the government 
troops sent to their rescue. Even General Chang Kuang-ssu 
found himself at his wits' end. The trouble was that the Chinese 
had to march into an unknown country, full of treacherous foes, 
and defended by hundreds of towers (5$) built on solid rocks. To 
capture one of these towers often meant the death of great numbers 
of brave men; and many of General Chang's best officers lost their 
lives in this new kind of warfare. The further the Chinese 
advanced, the more numerous were the towers that awaited them. 
There was no pitched battle and no supplies to be obtained locally 
for the vast number of men that had been assembled. To crown 
all, the man w r hom General Chang had for his guide and in whom he 
implicitly trusted, was a traitor ; and through him all his plans were 
revealed to the enemy, so that the latter knew exactly where to 
concentrate their forces. A Manchu general named Nachin (Pi IS) 
was sent from Peking to investigate matters ; and the result was a 
quarrel between the two commanders, which led to further disasters. 
As a consequence, both of them were put to death, and in 1749 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



44' 



General Fu Heng (1f t£), Grand Secretary, Grand Councillor, and 
brother-in-law of the Emperor, and General Yoh Chung-ch'i (£ ^ *£-) 
were sent to take their places. The traitor having been put to death 




by order of General Fu, Solopan was no longer able to find out 
the movements of the Chinese, and knew that in the long run his 
chance of success would be very small. As he had served under 
General Yoh during the Kokonor campaign, he at once sent 



US 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



messengers to him asking for pardon. The question was referred 
to Peking and Solopan was granted his request on condition that he 
return to his former allegiance. This he was willing to do, and 
after he had been sworn, according t.o the Tibetan form, to support 
the Tach'ing Dynasty, General Fu returned to Peking. The 
Dzungar war, that has already been described, gave Solopan a rest 
and enabled him to recover his strength. 




Group of Chins. (Scott— " Burmah ") 

Civil War in Burmah; Burmese Invasion of Yiinnan(1752- 

1766). — The year 1752 marked a great upheaval in Burmah, and 
resulted two years later in the establishment of a new government 
by Alompra (^ H 3 1 ) at Ava. The semi-independent tribes between 
Yunnan and Burmah, with the exception of the Muhpan (?K £15) and 
Kuei Chia (M %>), gladly accepted the new king as their overlord. 
During the long struggle that ensued the chief of the Kuei Chia was 
obliged to seek protection from the Viceroy of Yunnan in 1761. 
He came into Chinese territory, but being unable to pay the price 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 449 

of the protection he sought, he was put to death by the Viceroy. 
The king of Burmah was not informed of his death; and in 1765 
he came with a large force to demand his extradition and also to 
collect tribute from some tribes on Chinese territory, which had 
been in the habit of acknowledging the former king as their over- 
lord. The provincial garrisons, being unprepared for this invasion, 
were easily defeated; but an epidemic came to their aid in the 
following year, when the Burmese, after much plundering of the 
country, gradually returned to their own land. However, a sort of 
frontier war in which the Burmese were the victors, was kept up 
during the remainder of the year. 

First Expedition Against Burmah. — When Ch'ien Lung- 
heard of the defeat of his soldiers by the Burmese, he was greatly 
incensed. In the fall of 1767 two divisions of the Chinese army 
set out from Yunnan with the object of capturing Ava. The main 
division under General Ming Sui (M i$), consisting of 17,000 men, 
took the route leading through Muhpan; while the smaller force 
marched by way of Manmih (Si^). General Ming, having van- 
quished the enemy at Muhpan, and having left there a garrison of 
5,000, continued his advance to within 70 li of the Burmese capital, 
when provisions began to fail. He was evidently not provided with 
an accurate map of the country; for, instead of falling upon Ava, 
he turned from this point northward in the hope of meeting the 
second division. The difficulties of the way were so great that ere 
long he found it necessary to retreat ; but even this was undertaken 
with the gravest peril. The Burmese, who had been slowly aug- 
menting their forces, now came in great numbers in pursuit of the 
Chinese. At the same time, word was received by General Ming 
that his garrison at Muhpan had been dislodged by the enemy, and 
that a hostile army was also approaching from that direction. After 
days of continuous fighting, the General could see no way of deliver- 
ance, and gave out orders that his men should save themselves the 
best way they could. Thereupon the whole army disbanded save 
a small number of his bodyguard who gathered around their 
commander. " We must show the enemy how the Manchus can 



450 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

fight in the face of death," said the General ; and, in response to 
this, his last call, the guards rode into the ranks of the enemy with 
undaunted bravery until everyone of them was virtually cut to pieces. 
After being severely wounded, General Ming ended his life by his 
own hand. The news of this disaster fired the Emperor with such 
wrath that he put the leader of the second division to death for his 
failure to co-operate with his chief. 

Second Expedition Against Burmah.— In 1769 Ch'ieu Lung 
redoubled his efforts to wipe out the shame that had been 
brought upon the arms of China. A fresh army of no less than 
60,000 men was assembled on the border and General Fu Heng, 
the chief reliance of the government, was once more sent out of 
Peking to take the direction of military affairs, with Generals 
Alikuan (Pn] S ^) and Akuei (M ^) as his assistants. The plan 
of the Chinese was to invade Burmah from three directions. One 
detachment was to sail down the Irrawaddy, while two others 
were to go overland by different routes. General. Fu would net 
wait until the hot season was over but insisted upon a general 
advance in the middle of the Chinese seventh month. His 
imprudence was paid for at great cost. After three mouths of 
marching through an unknown country, and enduring all kinds 
of privations and hardships, the Chinese were so decimated by 
tropical diseases that both overland columns returned to Bhamo 
without seeing the enemy. The only hard fighting was done along 
the banks of the Irrawaddy, where General Akuei greatly distin- 
guished himself. General Alikuan died at Bhamo, and General 
Fu Heng passed away the next year in Peking. 

While severe fighting was taking place on the Irrawaddy, 
Burmah was burdened by a war with the Siamese ; and the king 
found it to his interest to ask the Chinese for peace. The result 
was the conclusion of a treaty in which it was agreed that Burmah 
should pay tribute to China, and restore all the land she had 
taken. China was to liberate all her prisoners of war. This 
treaty was not entered into by either party in good faith, and was 
never carried out. But when China was ready to renew the war, 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 451 

her forces were required elsewhere, for the prolonged Burmese 
struggle had given the tribes on the Szechuan border an oppor- 
tunity to return to their usual calling of head-hunting. 

Second Campaign against the Tachinch'uan. — When 
Akuei was sent into Szechuan, he found the condition of things 
anything but satisfactory. The two tribes of the Golden River 
were in open revolt and had on more than one occasion inflicted 
severe defeats on the Chinese troops that had been sent against 
them. During the next few years, 1772-1776, all the energies of 
the administration were again absorbed in the West. After 
months of hard campaigning, Akuei succeeded in driving the 
chief of the Hsiaochinch'uan out of his stronghold at Mina 
(If). This chief had concluded an offensive and defensive 
alliance with the chief of the Tachinch'uan, and now that his 
fortune had reached such a low ebb, he naturally fled to his friend. 
A demand for his surrender being refused, Akuei could not do 
otherwise than advance ; but the task before him was beset with 
almost insuperable difficulties. There were even more towers 
to be taken than in the first campaign ; and everything had been 
planned to make the places inaccessible. As if to increase the 
difficulties, at this juncture a fresh outbreak took place among 
the tribes of Hsiaochinch'uan, with the result that General Wen Fu 
(88. ?S), the Commander-in-Chief, and his detachment were massa- 
cred at Mukumu (?|c^^c). Once more Akuei, who was now 
given the chief command, had to do the work over that was thus 
undone. This having been accomplished, he united his forces 
for a final struggle with the Tachinch'uan tribe. In spite of 
their strength , tower after tower fell and each month the 
Chinese drew nearer the end of the campaign. Alarmed by their 
persistency, Solopan poisoned his friend, produced his remains, 
and asked for peace. But Akuei would listen to no terms. The 
siege was so pressed that in the beginning of 1776, Solopan led 
his family out of his castle and surrendered to Akuei. They 
w T ere afterward conveyed to Peking. Out of gratitude, the Em- 
peror came to Liang Hsiang (li) to meet Akuei, as he had 



452 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

done on the occasion of the return of General Chao Hui from Hi, 
and conferred upon him the title of a hereditary duke. 

Burmah Accepts Chinese Suzerainty. — The latter part of 
the year, Akuei was returned to Yunnan where much recon- 
noitering was to be done. Misfortunes now fell upon Burmah. 
Weakened by civil strife, she found herself completely at the 
mercy of her neighbor and historic enemy, the Siamese. Inas- 
much as Siam had sent missions with tribute to China, Bliodon 
Phra, the new king of Burmah, thought that the cheapest way for 
him to get out of the trouble would be to follow her example. In 
1788, he, too, sent an embassy to China to pay tribute and to ask for 
pardon ; and two years later, a second was sent to attend the 
celebration of the eightieth anniversary of the Emperor's birth- 
day. On the latter occasion, Ch'ien Lung issued a patent which 
conferred on Bhodon Phra the title of King of Burmah, — a title 
he had long assumed, without the Emperor's sanction — and agreed 
that Burmah should pay her tribute once every ten years. The 
practice of sending decennial tribute has been faithfully observed 
ever since, and was confirmed by the Anglo-Chinese Convention 
of 1886. 

The War with the Annamese. — In consequence of a 
revolution which broke out in Cochin China in 1788, the King of 
Annam, Li Wei-chi (H $£ ®f), fled to China to ask for aid against 
his rebellious minister, Yuan Wen -hui (K39C Si). Annam, once a 
province of the Ming Empire, had been paying tribute to the Ta 
Ch'ing Dynasty ever since the overthrow of Kuei Wang. The 
government, therefore, felt that it was her duty to do something for 
the unfortunate prince. Sun Shih-i (M dbS), the Viceroy cf the 
Liang Kuang, was sent with an army to replace Li Wei-chi on 
his throne. The Viceroy went by way of Liangshan (USUI) 
and met with no opposition whatsoever; but while he was cele- 
brating the Chinese New Year festivities in Hanoi, the capital, 
the rebellious minister Yuan took him by surprise, and his 
retreat was converted into a rout. After crossing the Fuliang 
Chiang CM&tL), Sun had the bridge destroyed, and thus 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



453 



left most of his men to their fate on the enemy's side of the 
river. General Fn K'ang-an («$t£), son of Fu Heng, was 
next sent. Bnt as Yiian did .'not wish to continue the war, 
he sent his nephew to Peking to announce his submission, 
and came in person to pay his respects to the Emperor on the 
occasion of the celebration of his eightieth birthday. The Em- 
peror was so pleased with his conduct, that he actually made 
him King of An nam instead of Li Wei-chi, who, by his orders, 
was now a Manchu citizen living quietly in Peking. 

Some Lessons of the Wars. — The wars with the aboriginal 
tribes and half savages of the border, gave an apt illustration 
of China's need of better equipment in the matter of roads 
and medical knowledge. These are more important factors in 
the building up of an empire than an efficient army. In their 
absence, China not only could not conduct wars, with any 







I .L4XL.-L-t-L.-L-L i i 



Dzungarians paying homage to Ch'ien L,ung, Peking 

degree of success, in such places as Burmah or Annam, but could 
not hold the turbulent element within her own borders in subjec- 
tion. Many of the mountains and deep swamps could have been 
made into inhabitable lands, capable of supporting an industrious 



454 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

and enlightened population, if the government had had the 
knowledge and the means at her disposal to do the work. 

Another fact in this connection that forces itself upon our 
attention is that the energy of the Manchu seems to have spent 
itself after a century of Peking life amid the enervating influences 
of Chinese civilization. The Chinese army was not half so great 
or efficient as the contemporary historians, poets, and other 
writers, blinded by national vanity and scholarly pride, would 
have us believe. In many cases the commanders had to be spur- 
red into action by an emperor who was quite as willing to sign 
their death warrants as their patents of nobility. It was the 
numbers and resources rather than anything else that counted in 
the end. With a less energetic and able ruler to direct affairs, 
with insufficient funds, or with a foe other than half savages to 
contend with, the armies certainly could not have accomplished 
what they did. The war of Tachinch'uan alone, extending over 
five years, cost the government more than 70,000,000 taels. This 
sum is two and a third times the cost of the conquest of Turkes- 
tan. As will be pointed out elsewhere, signs of national decline 
were not wanting during the latter years of Ch'ien Lung. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 455 

CHAPTER E 

CH'IEN LUNG AS A CIVIL RULER 

Chinese Absolutism. — Apart from the military glory for 
which it is celebrated, the reign of the Emperor Ch'ien Eung, 
viewed as a whole, is a complete success from the Chinese stand- 
point. If his government was absolute in form, he represented 
the best type of Chinese absolutism. Well educated, enlightened, 
energetic, and having the welfare of his people at heart, he 
exercised the power which w T as centered in him to the best 
advantage of the nation. No detail of government ever escaped 
his attention and his best and highest ministers were mere clerks, 
" whose sole duty it was," to use the Emperor's own words, " to 
transcribe faithfully the imperial commands." It was only 
towards the end of his reign, when burdened by age, that his 
grasp upon the government somewhat slackened. Then it was 
that Ho K'un (fti *$) was permitted to abuse his powers to a certain 
extent, and to amass great wealth for himself. If a Chinese 
ballad affords an illustration of the esteem in which a ruler was 
held by his subjects, our annals happily preserve one that is worth 
reproducing. The ballad is a rustic air and laconic, but is very 
suggestive. It runs thus; "Ch'ien Eung Pao, Tseng Shou K'ao; 
Ch'ien Lung Chien, Wan-wan Nien" (|£Haif*#^^^m^¥). 
(O the cash of Ch'ien Eung, may it be the sign of the emperor's 
long life; O the cash of Ch'ien Eung, may he live millions of 
years ! ) 

Whatever excuse there may be for the continuation of the 
imperial form of government, as best suited to the conditions in 
China, it must be remembered that history has given us but very 
few emperors like Ch'ien Eung, a man who was able to fulfil the 
trust reposed in him and to discharge the obligations he owed to 
the people. 

The Manchu and Chinese Factions. — The feud between 
the Manchus and Chinese in political circles never assumed such 



456 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

an alarming form as it did during the earlier part of the reign of 
Ch'ien Lung. The last decree issued in the name of his father 
recommended to him certain high ministers as worthy of his 
trust. They were mostly princes of the blood, excepting Ortai 
and Chang Ting-yii (3g@3E), who were both Grand Secretaries, 
and the former a Manchu, though the latter was a Chinese. All 
the Manchu ministers of the court soon began to gather around 
Ortai as their leader, while their Chinese colleagues rallied around 
Chang Ting-Yii. Thus two factions at once sprang up, and 
their rivalry became so acute that the situation brought forth 
many decrees of censure from the Throne, and caused many 
scholars to be put to death for their offensive writings. These 
drastic measures prevented disastrous consequences to the 
nation. 

The Honor of P'ei Hsiang in the Imperial Ancestral 
Hall. — Under the regulations of the Manchu Dynasty, sacrifices 
were offered in the Imperial Ancestral Temple to the spirits of 
ministers who distinguished themselves under their respec- 
tive emperors. This offering was called P'ei Hsiang (SB ?) 
(literally signifying "the mate of sacrifices"), and was considered 
an exceptional mark of honor. The tablet of Chang Ting-yii 
was the only one of a Chinese minister that was ever admitted into 
the Imperial Ancestral Hall. His services to the ruling dynasty, 
however, were of a rather unimportant character. At least, they 
do not admit of comparison with those of Tseng Kuo-fan 
(f||). or Li Hung-chang (^sfel^), to both of whom the 
honor was denied. In the case of Chang Ting-yii the honor had 
been promised him before his death by the Emperor Y 7 ung 
Cheng. Even Chang himself was not so sure that he merited 
this mark of imperial favor and at one time he incurred the 
serious displeasure of Ch'ien Lung by seeking to obtain from his 
new master a confirmation of the promise in the form of a poem 
bearing upon this subject. When he died, Ch'ien Eung, however, 
carried out the promise of his father. Chang Ting-yii was a 
native of Tung Ch'eng (M i$), Anhui. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



457 




The Golden Age of Literature. — The age of Ch'ien Lung 
must be regarded as the Golden Age of Chinese literature so far as 
the Manchu Dynasty is concerned. There were mere standard 
works issued by the government during this period than in the 
period of K'ang Hsi. Every known work of antiquity, as well as 
everything in print, from the pen of well-known authors or 
poets, was collected, revised and reprinted at the expense of the 
government. The entire collection comprising thousands of 



458 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



volumes, was issued under the name of Ssii K'u Ch'lian Shu 
m }$• £ «), or "The Complete Set of the Four Libraries." The 
c< Libraries" thus referred to were the "Libraries of the 
Classics ($$), Histories (&), Philosophy (=£) and Miscellanies 
(M)," into which the set is divided. A set of this rich literature 
was by imperial order placed at each of the following cities, for 
the benefit of the general reading public: viz., Hangchow, Yang- 
chow and Chinkiang, — the Kiangsu and Chekiang provinces 
being then the literary centre of the empire. The Emperor was 
himself no mean author, and also had ability as a painter and a 
poet. 

Chi Yun of Chihli. — In this connection mention must be 
made of Chi Yiin (IB fl$), the editor-in-chief of the famous Ssu K'u 
Ch'uan Shu, who wrote a synopsis of each book for the information 
of his studious master. In its 
condensed form this is now issued 
in a separate volume, and is con- 
sidered an invaluable key to the 
vast masses of Chinese literature. 
No one who turns over its pages 
can help thinking of the great 
Emperor for whom it was writ- 
ten. Having glanced over the 
entire fielo\ of Chinese literature 
up to his time, he felt that there 
was no room for any book he 
might write himself, and he left 
us no books of his own save a novel. He compares favorably with 
Liu Hsiang (fij ft) of the Han Dynasty. 

The Southern Tours of Inspection.- Like his grand- 
father, Ch'ien Lung travelled extensively. During his reign he 
made six trips or "Southern Tours of Inspection," as they are 
called, into the Yangtze valley. He visited both Soochow and 
Hangchow and his visits undoubtedly added much to the fame of 
the West Lake of the latter city. Soochow, however, had more 




Egg-shell Saucer-dish of Imperial 

Ch'ien Idling porcelain. 

(" Chinese Art") 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



459 



fascination for his mother. In one of her palaces in Peking, a 
place was constructed on the model of this city and called 
Soochow Chieh (Wk W if), or the street of Soochow. After Ch'ien 
Ivimg no emperor honored the Yangtze region with a visit. 

Chinese Currency. — During the early part of the reign of 
Ch'ien Lung, a "cash " famine occurred in China. The cause of 
it was that many persons had found it profitable to melt coins, 
minted during the earlier reigns, for the copper they contained. 
To put a stop to this practice, it was decided in 1740 to use more 
alloy in the coinage of copper cash. In the cash put into 
circulation after that year there was 50% of copper and 50% of 
alloy, instead of being in the proportion of 6 to 4, as had 
formerly been the case. This new standard of proportion was 
kept up during the next two reigns. 

About this time, China, or more particularly the southern 
part of it, was flooded with the K'uan Yung (% jk) cash, which was 
coined in Japan and resembled that of China in design. K'uan 
Yung was the name under which a Japanese emperor reigned 
(1624-1643). 




Ch'ien I<ung in His Chair of State 



460 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Besides the two mints at Peking, one of which was connected 
with the Board of Revenue and the other with the Board of 
Works, there was then in each of the eighteen provinces a 
provincial mint. The practice of having two raised Manchu 
characters on the reverse side of the cash, one denoting the name 
of the province and the other the equivalent of the word 
"currency," dates from 1723, the first year of the reign of 
Yuno- Cheng. 

National Prosperity and Extravagance. — The finances 
of the Ta Ch'ing Empire were probably never in a better condition 
than during the reign of Ch'ien Lung. In the" year the Emperor 
came to the throne, the treasury showed a surplus of Tls. 30,000,000. 
In spite of his costly wars, expensive conservancy work on the 
Yellow River, and the immense outlay entailed by the frequent 
transportation of the Imperial Court from place to place, Ch'ien 
Lung w r as enabled to remit the land tax during four separate years 
throughout the empire. In 1795 the population of China reached 
296,978,968. In the same year there w^as stored in the different 
government granaries 39,753,175 shih (;&) of rice. The wealth of 
Ho K'un (^n $), who is said to have made 2,000,000,000 taels within 
twenty years, also speaks well for the prosperity of the time. The 
successor of Ch'ien Lung often referred to this time as a period of 
extravagance. 

Agriculture made much progress during this reign; and in 
many localities, especially in the northern provinces, land was for 
the first time brought under cultivation and watered by a system of 
canals. In artistic workmanship, both porcelain and lacquer 
reached their highest perfection, and began almost immediately to 
decline. The same thing is true, to a certain extent, as regards 
Chinese painting. 

Russian Trade at Kiakhta. — In 1737 at the suggestion of 
the inspecting censor of the Russian Legation at Peking, Russian 
caravans were made to stop at Kiakhta. Until Russia was 
granted permission to employ the sea route, — a privilege conceded in 
1858, — Kiakhta continued to be the centre of frontier trade. The 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



461 



Tushetu Khan was ex officio the superintendent of trade;' but in 
1772 the matter was taken out of his hands, and two Imperial 
Residents were for the first time stationed at Urga, and charged 
with the supervision of the foreign trade. According to the law, 
one of them was to be appointed from amongst the Manchn or 
Mongol dignitaries of Peking; and the other from amongst the 
Dzassaks of Outer Mongolia. No custom duty was charged at the 
frontier by either the Chinese or the Russian government. Trade, 
however, did not continue uninterruptedly, and in the years 1764, 
1769, and 1785, it was entirely stopped by orders from Peking, 
pending the settlement of certain questions that had arisen out of the 
treaties. 

Two treaties between China and Russia were signed during 
the reign of Ch'ien Lung. The first one, supplementary to the 
treaty of 1727, was signed in Kiakhta in 1768 and was made for 
the purpose of defining more carefully the procedure to be pursued 
in extraditing and punishing criminals; and the second one 
was signed in 1792 between the Governor of Irkutsk and the 
Chinese frontier authorities, and was intended to regulate the 
trade at Kiakhta and across 
the frontier. The principal 
exports that found their way 
through Kiakhta into Russia 
were tea, tobacco, and silk. 

English Trade at Can- 
ton; The Co-Hong System. 
— While Kiakhta occupied an 
enviable position in the North, 
so far as the frontier trade 
was concerned, all China's 
maritime trade gravitated to 
Canton in the South. As a 
result of the persistent efforts 
of the East India Company, 

the English had SUCCeeded, in coat of Arms of the East India Company 





402 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

spite of the Portuguese opposition, in establishing a factory in 
Canton, and in carrying on trade with other ports. The object 
of sending goods to Amoy, Ningpo and other places was to 
avoid the exactions of the Canton authorities. In 1757, the 
attention of the government was drawn by the Viceroy of Minche 
to the attempts on the part of the East India Company to 
open up new channels for English trade; and the reply was a 
decree, issued in the name of the Emperor, making the tariff of 
Chekiang a good deal higher than that at Canton. A complaint, 
in the form of a memorial, was prepared by one of the foreign 
merchants, and submitted to the Government through the Tientsin 
authorities in 1759. This brought no relief. On the contrary, the 
author of the memorial, who had the audacity to speak of the 
extortions of the Canton authorities, was imprisoned in Macao for 
two and one half years before he was released and permitted to 
return to England. 

The year 1720 saw the birth of the Co-Hong System in 
Canton. It was at first an organization of native merchants to 
regulate the prices of commodities in their own interest. It soon 
received official backing; but, in 1771, it was found that many of 
its members were bankrupt and the system was dissolved. When 
the plan revived some ten years later, the Co-Hong was entirely a 
government organization, composed at first of " The Twelve," and 
subsequently of " The Thirteen Merchants." They were to assume 
sole control of the foreign trade, to ensure due obedience to the 
orders of the government, and to serve as the sole intermediaries 
between China and the foreign traders. In one particular way, 
the Co-Hong made itself very useful to the officials. It was the 
channel through which flowed a stream of wealth into their private 
purses ; and it continued to exist until the Treaty of Nanking in 
1842 dealt it a death blow. " Pigeon English " is a remarkable relic 
of the Co-Hong days. It was the language of the Co- Hong 
merchants, or Shin San Hong (The Thirteen Hongs) as it is called 
in Chinese. It was formed at Canton by taking words from all 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



463 



European and Asiatic languages and corrupting them sufficiently to 
suit the Chinese taste and grammar. 

Trade with Other Nations. — About the same time, trade 
was also carried on at Canton with the Americans, French, 
Danes, Prussians, Mexicans, and other foreign nations; but it 
was not so important as that of England. The Americans began 
to have direct trade with China in 1784. 

Jurisdiction over Foreigners. — When foreigners first came 
to Canton, they enjoyed no extraterritorial privileges. In 
Macao, the Chinese allowed the Portuguese no jurisdiction even 
in cases where one European killed another. In 1754, a French- 
man was tried and punished by the Chinese court for the murder 
of an English sailor at Whampoo. In 1773, an Englishman, 
charged with the murder of a Chinese in Macao, was surrendered 
to the Chinese by the Portuguese authorities, retried, and 
executed. Seven years later, a Frenchman was strangled to 
death for the murder of a Portuguese. No foreign ladies were 
allowed in the factories at Canton. 





wfKmmm' 




' ' *'*'■ 



Reception of T^ord Macartney by Emperor Ch'ien I,ung. (Gorst) 

Macartney's Embassy to China. — With a view to redressing 
the existing grievances at Canton and to placing the trade upon a 
more satisfactory basis, the British government sent Eord 
Macartney as her ambassador to China. He sailed from Ports- 
mouth in September 1792, and arrived at Taku in the following 



464 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

August. He was well received by the Viceroy at Tientsin, and a 
representative was appointed to accompany him to Peking. 
Under the provisions of the Imperial Institutes, as soon as a 
foreign envoy bearing tribute landed in China, his travelling 
expenses were to be defrayed by the government, and his 
movements watched ; hence the appointment of officials to 
accompany him. The Chinese could see no difference in the 
case of Lord Macartney, especially since the boats and carts, 
conveying the members of his embassy, bore flags inscribed with 
characters signifying, "An Ambassador bearing tribute from 
England." "This was known to the envoy but he made no 
protest, preferring to have his ignorance assumed." At Peking, 
he agreed to kneel on one knee when approaching the Emperor, 
but knelt on both knees when the audience actually took place. 
Of business, not a single point was discussed or settled. The net 
result of the mission, as has been ably summarized, was that 
" the ambassador was received with the utmost politeness, treated 
with the utmost hospitality, and dismissed with the utmost 
civility.' ' 

Its Effects Upon China. — Viewed in the light of subse- 
quent history, it must be admitted that the manner in which 
Macartney was received at Peking, had a good deal to do with the 
national vanity of China. It confirmed the belief of the Chinese 
scholars that their emperor was the universal sovereign. For 
this self-conceit, China has paid dearly ever since. 

Ch'ien Lung Abdicates in Favor of His Son. — Two years 
after the departure of Macartney from China, a unique event took 
place. In pursuance of a solemn declaration that he had made 
while offering sacrifices to God, Ch'ien Lung abdicated his throne 
in favor of his fifteenth son, Prince Chia (III). The ceremony 
took place on the Chinese New Year day. The Emperor gave 
as his reason for the abdication that he did not wish to surpass 
the record of his great-grandfather who had ruled sixty years. 
Ch'ien Lung was then eighty-six years old and it was quite 
natural that he should wish to be relieved of the cares of the 



OUTLINES. OF CHINESE HISTORY 465 

government. He had issued a decree appointing his second son 
heir to the throne, but the latter died in the third year of his 
reign. Ch'ien Lung was very prond of his age; and, in 1785, he 
gave a banquet, known as "The Thousand Old Men's Banquet " 
(^ j& 3|£), in honor of the old men of his day. He gave another 
of these in 1796. Every one who was above sixty years of age 
was permitted to partake of these banquets with the Emperor. 
On the former occasion there were 4,000 persons present ; and, 
on the latter occasion, the number reached 6,000, several of whom 
were over 100 years of age. The only banquet of this nature 
before his day was the one given by K'ang Hsi. Ch'ien Lung 
lived another three years after the second "Old Men's Banquet." 



486 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

THIRD PERIOD : — THE ERA OF DECLINE 

CHAPTER LI 
AN AGE OF INSURRECTION 

Introductory. — When Ch'ien Lung abdicated, he evidently 
thought that he had bequeathed a legacy of peace and prosperity to 
his son. Had he not secured the frontier of China on every side 
against the attacks of the savages ? Had he not won the love and 
support of the most influential part of Chinese society, the literati, 
and given to his son an empire much larger than the one he had 
received from his father ? The military strength of the empire 
had been increased by 65,000 men, and its population, which, accord- 
ing to the census of 1735, was only 27,350,000, was now 
297,000,000. During the three score years of their greatest 
strength, the Manchus had been so busy in their efforts to secure 
the throne to their posterity that nothing could now disturb the 
peace of the empire. If such were the thoughts of Ch'ien Lung, 
he was greatly mistaken. The truth was that the Manchu power 
had reached its zenith; and beneath the smooth surface of political 
affairs there existed many elements of disorder. To all outward 
appearances, their power was as great as ever ; but in reality it had 
reached the period of decline. With few exceptions, the whole 
reign of Chia Ch'ing, embracing a period of 25 years, was occupied 
with the work of restoring peace within the empire. Before one 
rebellion could be put down, another would break out in a different 
part of the country. It was indeed an age of insurrection; and the 
first in the long train was the Miaotzu trouble. 

Home of the Miaotzu and Their Relations with the 
Government. — On the Hunan-Kueichow border there is a high 
mountain range called the La Erh Shan (HI J£ Uj). From time 
immemorial, the La Erh Shan has afforded a home to the Miaotzu 
tribes who are commonly believed to be the descendants of the first 
occupants of China. Under the Ming Dynasty, this part of the 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 467 

country formed a military district, with the name of Yung Shun 
Hsiian Wei Ssfi (& Jfi 1C It r]), subject to the control of a military 
governor appointed from Peking. The Manchus continued this 
form of government as late as 1704; and then, as a result of military 
conquests, the southern half of the district was converted into the 
two Independent Sub-Prefectures of Clrienchow and Fenghuang 
(^^Ilifi^iO. The chiefs of the northern half, when they 
saw the campaign conducted by General O Erh-tai (f|5 H ^) against 
their brethren in the Kueichow province, voluntarily applied for 
annexation. Their request was readily granted; and out of the 
land they surrendered were carved the four districts that now 
compose the Prefecture of Yung Shun (^WR), and the two In- 
dependent Sub-Prefectures of Yung Sui (& fflt) and Sung T'ao 
(& #fc), — the last of these forming a part of Kueichow province. 
Thus, for the first time, all the Miaotzu territory on the Hunan- 
Kueichow border had been brought completely under the civil 
government of China. The change, however, brought the Miaotzu 
no happiness. They were looked down upon, deceived, and mis- 
governed. Gradually they were made to withdraw into the 
mountain fastnesses, leaving the more thrifty Chinese to bring their 
land under cultivation. By the year 1795 the limits of human 
forbearance were reached. 

The Miaotzu in Open Rebellion. — In February 1795, the 
Miaotzu tribes of T'ung Jen (MiP-), Yung Sui, Fenghuang and 
Ch'ienchow, under their respective leaders, declared war upon their 
Chinese neighbors. They took possession of the city of Ch'ienchow, 
which they at once proceeded to fortify; and gave up to pillage other 
cities that fell into their hands on the borders of Hunan, Kueichow, 
and Szechuan. Thousands of Chinese homes were sacked and 
destroyed; and hundreds of people, who had migrated thither on 
account of the richness of the soil, were mercilessly massacred. 
That the Viceroys of Hukuang, Yiin-kuei, and Szechuan accom- 
panied their armies to the scene of trouble, shows the seriousness 
of the situation. 



468 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

The Work of Suppression.— However it may have appeared 

at the outset the work of suppression was no easy matter. This 

was clue to the character of the country, which for the most part 

was covered with almost impenetrable forests; and also to the half- 

heartedness with which the work was undertaken. In March 1795, 

the armies of Viceroys Fu K'ang-an (Is H 3c) (Yiinkuei) and Ho 

Lin (*n sfr) (Szechuan) made a joint attack on the stronghold of 

Shih Liu-teng (SfjJPfK), the Miaotzu leader in T'ung Jen. The 

disparity between the numbers was so great that the result was an 

easy victory for the imperial troops. Shih Liu-teng was chased 

across the border into Hunan, and there was no further trouble on 

the Kueichow side of the La Erh Shan. But the work in Hunan 

was the most difficult. The Miaotzu knew their country better than 

their assailants, and a handful of men often sufficed to hold the 

mountain passes against an overwhelming force. Month after 

month passed, and the two armies were still at a great distance from 

Ch'ienchow. Nor had Viceroy Fu Ning (m &), of Hu Kuang, 

met with better success. After his reverse at Lu Ch'i (iA M), he had 

practically given up all hope of attacking Ch'ienchow ; and the best 

he had been able to do was to prevent the Miaotzu from breaking 

into the heart of Hunan. The Emperor lavished exceptional honors 

upon the Viceroys by making Fu K'ang-an an Imperial Prince of 

the third order (K ; f), and Ho Lin an Earl of the first order, in 

the hope that these honors would stimulate them to better efforts. 

Undoubtedly they did, but the renewed efforts on the part of the 

leaders came to nothing in the face of the physical obstacles in the 
country. 

In the meantime Wu Pa-yiieh (j%AJ3), one of the Miaotzu 
leaders, advanced the preposterous claim that he was a descendant 
of Wu San-kwei (^ H S), and that it was his purpose to recover the 
Chinese Empire from the Manchus. This claim brought him new 
adherents and the other Miaotzu leaders all agreed to join him. To 
strengthen the position at Ch'ienchow, Wu Pa-yiieh now built a 
city at P'ing Lung (^p ||) about 10 miles to the West. These places 
were so strong that it was not until the end of the first year of Chia 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 469 

Ch'ing's reign that both of them had succumbed and all the Miaotzu 
leaders of the rebellion had been either killed or captured. Even 
then the work of suppression was not finished ; and, as an in- 
surrection had broken out elsewhere, a part of the troops had to be 
withdrawn. Both Fu K'ang-an and Ho Lin had died before the 
campaign closed, and what credit there was for putting down the 
uprising belonged to General Galehtengpo (jgigft) and Ming 
Liang (§J| ^S), who had been sent to take up the unfinished task. 
For many years after, the Miaotzu continued to persecute the 
Chinese on account of the land question. This question was finally 
settled by Fu Nai (f£$), Sub-Prefect of Fenghuang, in 1799, 
when the Miaotzu were induced to give up their arms, and schools, 
for the first time, sprang up among them. It required the influence 
of the Chinese classics to do what the Manchu arms had failed to 
accomplish. 

Origin of the White Lily Society.— Of all Chinese secret 
societies, the White Lily, or Pai Lien Chiao (6§Hfc), was the 
oldest. The organization dates as far back as the time of the 
Mongolian Dynasty in China, and from the very outset was a 
political society under a religious mask. Religiously, the Pai 
Lien Chiao had much in common with both Taoism and 
Buddhism. As a political organization, its avowed purpose was 
to expel the Mongols. Han Lin-erh (ft #c 5E), under whom Chu 
Yuan-chang ($c % ^) served for a brief time, was a member of 
this sect. After the power of the Ming Dynasty had fallen into 
the hands of its eunuchs, the White Lily sect once more showed 
enough activity to produce the Rebellion of Hsu Hung-ju 
(ffefeSJn) in Shantung. This rebellion resulted in disaster and 
its leader was captured and put to death. After his death 
his adherents were soon dispersed. 

Revival of the White Lily Society.— The Mauchus 
having established themselves in China, the Society of the White 
Lily soon revived. It had secret agents in all the principal cities 
in Honan and the neighboring provinces preaching sedition and 



470 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

enrolling new members. In retired woods, in lonely houses, and 
in the deserted burial places of the ancient emperors, these new 
members went through all sorts of ceremonies; and, by solemn 
vows, pledged themselves to advance the ends of the movement, 
and to divulge none of its secrets. Thousands upon thousands 
of men and women thus became bound to maintain an organi- 
zation which had for its purpose the final expulsion of the 
Manchus. But it was impossible for a society of this character to 
continue to grow without causing a stir. In the year 1775, the 
suspicion of the Honan authorities was fully aroused, and by 
taking prompt action, they succeeded in arresting one Liu Sung 
(§|J&), said to be the head of the anti-dynastic movement. He 
was banished to the border of Kansu, and for a time nothing was 
heard of the White Iyily Sect. 

Eighteen years later, however, a new plot was discovered. 
It was now learned that during all these years, disciples of Liu 
Sung had worked with remarkable success among the masses 
of Hupeh, Shensi, and Szechuan ; and that they had decided 
to proclaim a boy, by the name of Wang Fa-sheng (:£!££.), as 
heir to the Ming throne. Some of these were arrested, but 
one of them, Liu Chih-hsieh (f?ij ;£ $9) , a native of Anhui 
province, managed to escape from the hands of the authorities at 
Hu Kou (^ Jg), Hunan, and remained a fugitive. The Emperor 
Ch'ien Lung at once promulgated an order requiring all the civil 
and military authorities throughout Honan, Anhui and Hupeh, 
to make a search for the fugitive and bring him to justice. This 
was the time of the great harvest for the local officials. They 
broke into the houses of the rich, where no suspicion ever 
existed, and would not leave until they had robbed the inmates 
of as much as they pleased. At times innocent persons were 
thrown into prison in order to make them tell the whereabouts 
of Liu Chih-hsieh, — something they did not themselves know — 
and were only released upon the payment of large sums of 
money. Ch'ang Tan-kuei (^ #H), the official charged with the 
execution of the order in the Prefectures of Chingchow ($J Wl) and 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 471 

Icbang (fiH), was a wretch of the worst type, and his deeds 
actually hastened the coming of the great storm. 

Beginning of the White Lily Rebellion. — With the 
beginning of Chia Ch'ing's reign in February 1796, the White 
Lily Rebellion, which taxed to the utmost the resources of China 
for nine years, broke out. It began in the districts of Chikiang 
(ttfr), Itn (SftB), Changyang (^ % ) and Changlo (^lg), where 
the work of Ch'ang Tan-knei O^^H) had hastened its coming. 
Hundreds of persons who would otherwise have had no sympathy 
for the White Lily movement now openly cast their lot with the 
rebels. Before the news of the outbreak had time to reach Pe- 
king, all West Hupeli (the Department of Chiugmen ($j PI) and 
the Prefectures of Hsiangyang (Hl%), Yiiriyang (|& %) , Ching- 
chow (ffl ffl), Shilman (Jg jg), and Ichang (S ^)), as well as the 
cities of Tengchow (fBiHI) and Hsinya (if if) in Honan, and Yu- 
yang (M (1) in Szechuan, had gone over to the rebels. The situa- 
tion was far more serious than the Miaotzu trouble in the south. 

When the seriousness of the situation was realized at Peking, 
troops poured into Hupeh from neighboring provinces, until 
there were no less than 20,000 men, including both Chinese and 
Manchus, upon the scene of trouble. In spite of this large force, 
the rebels, under the leadership of Yao Chih-fu (#fe ;£ %) and Chi 
Wang-shih (^ 3E &), a widow, left Hsiangyang in June to make a 
rapid descent upon Wuchang (& H), the capital of the province.- 
They got as far as Hsiaokan (#Ji), a short distance from 
Hanyang ($| %) ; but, owing to a sudden rise in the Yangtze, 
were obliged to retrace their steps. During the next three 
months, desultory fighting took place at different points in West 
Hupeh, victory, for the most part, remaining with the imperial 
troops. But just when the rebels were reduced to the strongholds 
of Hsiangyang in the north, and Kueichow (fi'Jtl) and Ichang in 
the south, news of an alarming character began to arrive from 
East Szechuan, the mountainous country adjoining the province 
of Hupeh. 



472 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Uprising in Szechnan. — The magistrate of Tachow (^M) 
(the place is now known under the name of Suitingfu (JK jfe Jfif)) 
was no less wicked than Ch'ang Tan-kuei. In his eagerness to 
make a fortune, he did exactly what the latter had done in 
Hupeh. Persons who had no connection with the society were 
frequently imprisoned because they were too poor to pay his 
demands; while the real offenders, the men whom the government 
was after, were released upon the payment of sufficient money. 
One of the men thus released was Hsu T'ien-te (& ^c tS) . The 
magistrate could have committed no worse blunder. He supplied 
the White Lily confederates in East Szechuan with a leader. 
These confederates included a good many disbanded soldiers and 
highway robbers, who had long been a terror in the mountain 
region. By order of Hsu T c ien-te, they now flew to arms, drove 
out the authorities and spread destruction far and wide. From 
Taiping (;fc 2 P) they forced their way into the province of Shensi, 
burning, plundering, and killing as they went. Neither the 
soldiers of Szechuan nor those of the Governor of Shensi, 
concentrated at that time at Hsingan (l£3g), moved a finger to 
stop them. 

Spread of the Kebellion. — In the first month of the second 
year of Chia Ch'ing (1796) the rebels broke out once more from 
Hsiangyang, and this time marched in the direction of Honan. 
From Honan they turned to the northwest and entered Shensi 
by way of Wukuan (^ciS). Confronted by the Ch'inling (^ £&) 
mountains, they then turned to the southwest and followed 
the bank of the Han River as far as Tzu-yang (§fc [§) . Here they 
seized a number of boats, crossed the river, and soon effected a 
junction with the Szechuan rebels. During the remainder of the 
year and the whole of the next, the borders of the provinces of 
Shensi, Szechuan, and Hupeh, or more particularly that part of 
the country bounded on the north by the Ch'inling mountains, on 
the west by the Chia lying Chiang (MB.U), on the south by the 
Yangtze, and on the east by the Han, enjoyed but little peace. 
They crossed and recrossed the Han several times. At one time 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



473 




C UA Cll'lNG 



the rebels were within a short distance of the city of Sian (pj S) 
itself. As soon as they were chased out of one place they- 'seemed 
to gather strength in another; and, as scon as one leader was 
killed, or captured, his place was immediately taken by some one 
fully as able and influential. 

Incompetency of Imperial Commanders: The Corrupt 
Mandarinate. — Imperial commanders were numerous, but most 
of them were either incompetent, or corrupt. Some of them 
took care to keep their armies away from the seat of war, ar.d 
spent the greater part of their time with actors and mistresses 



474 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

who were regular camp-followers. Others were not anxious to 
terminate the war because it meant to them a short cut to wealth. 
Of the enormous sums of money appropriated for the purposes 
of the campaign, very little was properly expended, the greater 
portion finding its way either into the pockets of the commanders, 
or into those of the powerful Ho Shen (*n 3|>), at Peking. When- 
ever there was any fighting to do, the commanders often made the 
volunteers from the villages bear the brunt of it. On going into 
battle, the volunteers always formed the van; next to them came 
the " Green Camp" soldiers, and then the Manchus. The reason 
for this order of battle was simple. The law required the 
commander to report the death of every Manchu soldier to the 
throne; but no such report was necessary in the case of a 
volunteer, or a "Green Camp" soldier. In case of a victory, 
the Manchu got full credit, the ' k Green Camp" only on rare 
occasions, and the poor village volunteers never. The great 
provincial armies, with one or two exceptions, existed only on 
paper; and the soldiers generally looked little better than beggars. 
Nothing was more eagerly sought by a young Manchu in Peking 
than an appointment in one of the armies. In a few months 
he either became a rich man, or a higher officer. Wholesale 
massacres of prisoners of war were of frequent occurrence, 
merely to make material for the report of an imaginary victory. 
Viceroy Fu Ming was once rewarded with the much coveted 
title of Grand Guardian to the Heir apparent (i; =f i; (&) , when 
the fact was that he had mercilessly put to death some two 
thousand men and women who had surrendered to him. His 
fraud was not discovered for several years. It is hardly necessary 
to add that these appalling crimes only served to further the 
cause of the rebellion. Under these circumstances is it surprising 
that a trouble, which could have been nipped in the bud with 
comparative ease, had developed into a most embarrassing 
situation ? 

Ho Shen's Fall from Power.— Ho Shen was a Manchu 
who owed his high position in the government to his tact and 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 475 

ability rather than to his birth. Tradition says that he was a 
bearer of the Imperial Sedan-ehair when he first saw the Emperor 
Ch'ien Lung. The Emperor, so the story goes, fell into conversa- 
tion with him one day, and was so pleased with his knowledge of 
the Chinese classics that he gave him an appointment in the civil 
service the next day. From that time, his promotion was most 
rapid. In -a few r years, he became Grand Secretary and the most 
influential member of the Grand Council. His son married one 
of Ch'ien Lung's daughters and his proteges had important 
positions throughout the empire. In point of both power and 
wealth he was second to none, — the imperial princes not being 
excepted. Yet he regretted that he was not a member of the 
Manchu aristocracy. The great wars of Ch'ien Lung had all 
ended before his day, and under the laws of the Manchu Dynasty, 
titles of nobility were never conferred in time of peace. The out- 
break of a civil war was, therefore, most welcome news to Ho 
Shen. He encouraged the commanders to send in exaggerated 
accounts of battles, in the hope that his great friend and patron, 
the Emperor Ch'ien Lung, who, notwithstanding his abdication 
had not given up his power, might some day be induced to 
ennoble him. His hope was realized in 1798. In the fall of 
that year, General Lohpao ($H£), the Commander-in-Chief, by 
false promises induced one of the ringleaders of the rebellion 
named Wang San-huai (EE H jft) to come to see him, when he 
had his guest seized and carried a prisoner to Peking. In his 
report Lohpao told his sovereigns how he had fought, how his 
enemies had been driven from their ground and how the prisoner 
had fallen into his hands. This report, which contained not a 
particle of truth, was forwarded from Peking to Jehol, where the 
Emperor Chia Ch'ing and the ex-Emperor Ch'ien Lung were 
holding a reception for the Mongolian Khans of the desert, and 
was read with great delight. Without stopping a moment to 
investigate the truth, Ch'ien Lung had both Lohpao and Ho Shen 
made Dukes. Ho Shen had now attained his end in life, but he 
did not have long to live. On February 7, 1799, Ch'ien Lung 



47(> OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

died, leaving Chia Ch'ing for the first time a free hand in the 
government. Four days later, the fate of Ho Shen was sealed. 
He was sentenced to die by the silken cord; and his estate, 
worth Tls. 2,00(X0C0,000, was confiscated. His death was 
followed by the removal of the guilty commanders, many of whom 
also lost their estates. Ho Shen's fall from power was, therefore, 
the turning point in the White Lily War. 

General Galehtengpo Becomes the Commander-in- 
Chief. — Of all the imperial commanders, General Galehtengpo was 
the most efficient, faithful and honest. Ever since the close of the 
Miaotzu campaign, he had been chasing the White Lily rebels from 
place to place, and from province to province ; but, owing to his 
poor knowledge of Chinese characters, was not given the chief 
command until the latter part of 1799. From the date of his 
appointment the active part of the war really began. General 
Teoutai (St fB^), another Manchu soldier, who had distinguished 
himself in the Miaotzu war, became his assistant. Galehtengpo 
pointed out, in his memorial to the Throne, the fact that the 
mountain range between Hupeh and Szechuan on the east and the 
Chia Ling Chiang on the west both afforded excellent natural 
defences. These natural advantages, he went on to explain, should 
be utilized to prevent the rebels from escaping into the rich country 
on either side; for they must be cut off from retreat before the 
different armies could gradually close in upon them in the Han 
Valley, where the cavalry could be employed to the best advantage. 
Thus he told the Government what he aimed to do, and he did it. 

Spread of the Rebellion into Kansu and West Sze- 
chuan. — Unfortunately, the men entrusted with the defence of the 
Chia Ling Chiang were not equal to the task imposed on them. As 
a consequence, the rebels, in the beginning of 1800, broke into 
Kansu in the north and West Szechuan in the south. In Kansu 
they advanced as far as Kung Ch'ang (m m), and in West Sze- 
chuan, as far as Sung Fan (/&#). But towards the close of the 
summer they were all driven back into the Han Valley, where des- 
truction awaited them. In West Szechuan, a rich country hitherto 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 477 

understated, the severest fighting of the war occurred. By skilful 
maneuvers rather than by the -weight of numbers. General Teoutai 
gained many a brilliant victory. 

Closing Scenes of the War. — In August 1800, LiuChih-hsieh, 
the principal leader of the rebellion, was discovered at Yeh Hsien 
(M f$), Honan, whence he was sent a prisoner to Peking to receive 
the punishment that was in store for him. By November 1801, all 
organized opposition was at an end, and the numerous rebel leaders 
had either been killed, or captured. But the broken fragments, and 
later the disbanded volunteers, kept both Generals Galehtengpo and 
Teoutai busy for two or three years longer. It was not until 
October 1804 that peace once more smiled upon the afflicted regions. 
Two Chinese soldiers distinguished themselves during the closing- 
years of the campaign. They were Generals Yang Yii-ch'un 
(Hr &#) and Yang Fang OH? 3/), both natives of Szechuan. It is 
estimated that the cost of the war was no less than Tls. 
2,000,000,000. The destruction of life and property was fearful, 
but no record is available as to the actual extent. 

The Ningshen Mutiny. — At the close of the White Lily 
War there were in the provinces of Hupeh, Szechuan, and Shensi 
thousand of volunteers who had fought side by side with the 
imperial troops. It was decided to retain some of them in the 
service of the Government and to employ them to garrison strategic 
points throughout the region of the recent rebellion. Accordingly 
3,500 were added to the "Green Camp" of Hupeh, 6,000 to 
Shensi, and 1,000 to Szechuan. Of the new commands created, 
mention may be made of the Titu (Lieutenant-General) of Hsiang 
Yang, the Ts'ung-ping (Brigadier-General) at Yiianyang and 
Ningshen, and of the Fuchiang (Colonel) at Tachow, henceforth 
to be known under the name of Suitingfu. Ningshen, the gate 
to the Nanshan region, was peihaps the most important of all the 
new military stations. This place being a new town, living was 
exceptionally expensive even for the soldiers. For this reason, the 
soldiers there were each allowed a sum of 5 mace a month in 
addition to their regular pay, with the understanding that a 



478 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

reduction of one mace was to be made at the end of every three 
years. The first period of three years came to an end by the middle 
of August 1806. But the Provincial Treasurer of Shensi, instead 
of carrying out the agreement, stopped the extra pay altogether. 
This evidence of bad faith on the part of the Government caused 
no little murmuring among the soldiery ; and the attempt made by 
the acting Brigadier-General, ' of Ningshen, to punish those who 
ventured to protest, only added fuel to the smouldering fire. 
Suddenly some 200 soldiers threw oft all restraint, murdered their 
commander, the acting Brigadier-General, set the prisoners in the 
city prison free, and then destroyed the citadel. In a few days, the 
mutineers gathered up thousands of men who loved plunder better 
than work, and were ready to follow in the footsteps of the White 
Lily rebels. The situation looked so grave that Generals Teontai, 
Yang Yii-ch'un, and Yang Fang were all ordered to Shensi at the 
head of their armies. In the meanwhile the mutineers had moved 
on to Hu Hsien (H$ II) in the north. At this point General Y r ang 
Fang appeared upon the scene. To the astonishment of those whom 
it was his mission to exterminate, Yang Fang, unarmed and un- 
accompanied, rode one morning into their midst. He pointed out 
to them what punishment was in store for them and, by persuasion 
and threats, was able to convince them that the best they could do 
was to lay down their arms. The mutineers returned with him to 
the barracks, leaving their friends who had cast their lot in with 
them to return home. What a service had Yang Fang performed 
in the interest of humanity and of peace! Had it not been for him 
the borders of Shensi, Szechuan and Hupeh might have once more 
witnessed the horrors of the White Lily War. Yet Yang Fang was 
accused of cowardice by Chia Ch'ing, who did not hesitate to banish 
him and the 200 mutineers to Hi, where the latter were one night 
all massacred in cold blood ! But Yang Fang was permitted to 
return after a year and was again employed in the army. In the 
following year, mutinies also broke out in several other places in 
Shensi and in Szechuan. In each case the trouble was attended by 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 479 

much bloodshed, and was suppressed with the usual cruelty which 
characterized the Manchu race. 

Piracy on the Coast. — During the years China was engaged 
in a civil war, piracy was rife on the coast of Canton, Fukien and 
Chekiang. It seems that for this state of affairs on the Chinese 
coast, the Annamese government was to blame, for some of the 
pirates were armed with high military commissions in their national 
army. At any rate, the pirates were a constant source of danger 
to shipping, and all trading junks had to pay a toll in order to 
escape capture. The leader of these pirates was a man named Ts'ai 
Ch'ien (H &), a native of Tung An Hsien (HO £ U), Fukien. Up and 
down the coast, Ts'ai Ch'ien preyed upon the commerce of China 
with impunity; for the provincial authorities, as a rule, would not 
trouble themselves about any thing that happened on the sea. The 
only man in whom Ts'ai Ch'ien found an enemy was another native 
of Tung An Hsien, named Li Ch'ang-keng (&&&'), who, at that 
time, held the post of Brigadier-General of Tinghai (£ t&), off the 
coast of Chekiang. Li was not only a soldier but also a sailor. He 
had several encounters with the pirate fleet and each time Ts'ai Ch'ien 
barely escaped with his life. In January 1808, another engage- 
ment took place near Nanao, and Li had captured all of the pirates' 
ships but three, when a cannon ball struck him on the throat and 
killed him almost instantly. Owing to the confusion that prevailed 
throughout the fleet, the pursuit was given up, and Ts'ai Ch'ien allow- 
ed to sail away with his shattered ships. Two years later, Ts'ai Ch'ien 
was surrounded by war junks near the Island of Yushan off the 
coast of Chekiang. Having lost all hope of escape, he jumped into 
the sea and drowned himself. After his death the pirates were not 
heard of for some time. 

Rise of New Secret Societies.— If Chia Ch'ing succeeded 
in putting down the White Lily Rebellion, he never succeeded in 
rooting out their Society. It is true that no organization existed 
under that name; but fragments of the old society under a score 
of different names and at different places soon developed into 
separate and independent societies, such as the Eight Diagrams 



ISO OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

(A SO, the Heavenly Reason Ot at), the I Ho Ch/iian (is ffi #) (the 
Boxers of 19C0), etc. These societies, with one exception, 
threatened future trouble, rather than constituted any immediate 
danger to the throne. To grapple with them all, was of course 
an impossibility, and Chia Ch'ing actually acknowledged this 
fact, when 1 e decreed that membership in a secret society should 
not in itself constitute a ciime against the Government. 

The Heavenly Reason Rebellion. — In 1811, to the 
consternation of the superstitious Chinese, a comet appeared. 
The Imperial astronomers in Peking pronounced the event an 
augury of war and proposed to counteract the evil influence by 
taking out the intercalary menth which was to fall between the 
8th and 9th moons of the 18th year of Chia Ch'ing (1813), and 
placing it between the 2nd and 3rd moons of the next year. The 
proposed change havirg been adopted by the Government, a 
report gained circulation, e^tecially in the northern provinces, 
that the Manchu rule would come to an end on the 15th day of 
the 9th moon of the 18th year of Chia Ch'ing (Oct. 9th, 1813). 
This, we observe, would have been the 15th day of an intercalary 
8th moon, but for the change. The people became so agitated 
that two leaders of the Heavenly Reason Society thought it an 
opportune mement to make an effort to overthrow the Manchu 
government. These men were Lin Ch'ing ($t ^) of Tahsing 
Hsien (*!&), Chihli, and Li Wen-ch'eng (3* £ jft) of Hua 
Hsien (JfjgS), Honan. Each of them had a large number of 
adherents in their respective provinces. According to the plot 
agreed upon, Lin Ch'ing, with the help of the eunuchs, who were 
members of the society, was to take possessicn of the Forbidden 
City on Oct. 9th ; while Li Wen-ch'eng was to attack Peking frcm 
without. 

The eventful day at last arrived; and, the Emperor being 
absent frcm Peking on a hunting trip at Jehol, everything 
promised to go off smoothly. With the help of the eunuchs, 
about 80 of Lin Ch'ing's adherents gained admittance into the 
Forbidden City before their presence was noticed. Finding the 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 481 

gate to the living apartments of the palace closed, several of them 
with white flags in hand climbed up the wall. Before they had 
time to jump down, the second Prince, afterwards the Emperor 
Tao Kuang, seized a gun and shot two of the intruders dead, while 
a shot fired by his cousin, Prince Mien Chili (IS M), killed a third. 
The sound of the firing immediately attracted the attention of the 
imperial guards, and during the night and the next day the 
survivors and the conspiring eunuchs were hunted down like rats. 
Lin Ch'ing himself also fell into the hands of the authorities at 
Huang Ts'un (3KW, a village not far from Peking, where he had 
been in hiding pending the result of his bold enterprise. When 
the Emperor returned on the 12th, peace and order once more 
prevailed throughout the Capital. Chia Ch'ing was so pleased with 
Prince Chi, his second son, who had acted with such coolness in 
the hour of excitement and danger, that he made him, instead of 
his elder brother, heir to the throne. 

Li Wen-ch'eng also failed to carry out the part he had 
agreed to play. In fact, he had fallen into the hands of the 
authorities long before the appointed day. His friends, however, 
broke into the prison and carried him off. They then killed 
the magistrate and set up the standard of rebellion. Several 
cities in Chihli and Shantung, where there were many members 
of the Heavenly Reason Society, went over to him ; but, on the 
apprcach of the imperial troops, they were easily recovered. The 
city of Hua Hsien, having stood a siege for several months, 
succumbed in January 1814; and Li Wen-ch'eng, in order to 
avoid capture, burned himself and family to death by setting fire 
to his house outside the city. 

Christianity under the Ban of a Secret Society. — The 

frequent uprisings of the secret societies had a very disastrous 
effect upon the Christian work in China. In 1805, a Cantonese 
was arrested in Shansi while trying to dispose of religious books 
for a Catholic priest. The case brought out an Imperial Decree, 
ordering the destruction of all such books wherever found. The 
priest in question was also arrested afterward and sentenced to 



482 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

imprisonment at Jehol. At the same time a number of Chinese 
converts and officers of the Catholic Church were banished to Hi, 
to become slaves of the Eleuths. In 1815 another priest was 
arrested at Lai Yang Hsien (2fc H $&), Hunan, for having remained 
in the interior of China without express permission from the 
Throne, and was sentenced to die by strangulation. The Catholic 
Church, once the recipient of so many favors from the first 
Manclni rulers, had indeed received no special attention from the 
recent emperors; but under Chia Ch'ing it came under the 
ban of a secret society. This was not removed until the day of 
the first French Treaty with China. 

The Amherst and Goloyken Missions. — In the year 1802, 
the English occupied Macao in order to prevent the French 
from taking it from the Portuguese. The nature of the lease 
under which the Portuguese were permitted to remain at Macao 
was not at that time understood in Europe. As the Treaty of 
Miens restored it almost immediately to the Portuguese, the 
occupation was too brief to attract the attention of the Chinese 
Government. Six years later similar circumstances made the 
re-occupation necessary from a military standpoint, and this time 
the indignation of Peking was fully aroused. The Viceroy at 
Canton, under instructions from the capital, protested, withheld 
supplies, and threatened to suspend trade. Admiral Drury not 
only paid no attention to the threats, but on several occasions also 
made a display of force before the forts at the Bogue. Although 
the incident was closed a few months later by England's evacua- 
tion of Macao, the unfavorable impression that had been created 
by the unwarranted conduct of Admiral Drury at Canton remained 
unchanged. As a consequence, the trade at Canton was subjected 
to many unreasonable restrictions in 1814. In view of the unsatis- 
factory state of things, the English Government decided to send 
a second embassy to China. Their choice fell upon Lord 
Amherst, who, like Lord Macartney, had held the important 
Viceroyalty of India, prior to his appointment. In August 1816, 
this second English embassy arrived at the mouth of the Peiho ; 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 483 

and after months of negotiations respecting the ceremony to be 
performed before the Chinese sovereign, Lord Amherst was 
forwarded to Peking. Upon his arrival at the capital, the English 
envoy was without a moment's rest driven to the Emperor's 
Summer Palace at Yuan-ming-yuan, where, he was informed, 
Chia Ch'ing was expecting him. He tried to excuse himself on 
the ground of fatigue and the non-arrival of his uniforms ; but his 
refusal to present himself at once offended the Emperor to such 
an extent that he ordered the embassy to leave China without 
delay. Thus the second English attempt to establish better 
relations with China had utterly failed to accomplish its end. 
There was no improvement in the relations between the two 
nations ; but, on the contrary, the importation of opium continued 
to increase, and finally caused war. 

Long before the Amherst Mission left England, the Russian 
Emperor had thought it proper to send a mission to China with a 
view to establishing a diplomatic base at Peking. In 1805, 
Count Goloyken, loaded with rich and numerous presents, 
started for China, and arrived safely at Kalgan on the Great Wall. 
Before he was permitted to enter the pass, he had to reveal to 
the officials the nature of his mission, and have his case referred 
to Peking. To his surprise, the instructions from the capital 
stated that he was to be allowed to come to the Chinese Court 
only upon his promise to perforin the kowtozv. This promise 
Count Goloyken could not consistently give, and consequently he 
had to return to Russia with all the presents that the Czar had sent 
to his brother in Peking. This was not the only occasion when 
Russia received a rebuff from Chia Ch'ing. One of her naval 
officers tried to secure a share of the maritime trade at Canton ; 
but his efforts were circumvented by the authorities. 

The fact was that both Russia and England knew very little 
of the true state of affairs in China. 



484 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER LH 
TAO HUANG'S WAR WITH THE MOHAMMEDANS 

Accession of Tao Kuang.— On Sept. 2, 1820, the Emperor 
Chia Ch'ing died at Jehol, where he had gene on a hunting trip. His 
death left both his throne and his misfortunes to his second son, 
Prince Chi, who on his accession took the name Tao Kuang (*£ it), 




Tac Kuang 



or Reason's Light. His reign covered a period of thirty years 
(1821-1850) ; and was quite as full as that of his predecessor had 
been of internal insurrections. There was a formidable uprising in 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 485 

all the Mohammedan cities of Chinese Turkestan, and also an 
invasion of South China by foreign soldiers. Between the years 1821 
and 1847, there was little peace in that part of the country known 
as Kashgaria, or the Southern Route of T'ien Shan (5c Ui 1^ $F). 

The Government of the Mohammedans in Kashgaria. — 

Kashgaria had long been the scene of misgovernment ; and owing 
to the great distance from Peking the officials there could generally 
do as they pleased with impunity. They treated the people with 
contempt and their chief concern was to enrich themselves. Every 
man from the highest Amban (3c £1?) down to the humblest Beg 
(fa ^) had his price. The garrisons, which consisted exclusively of 
Manchus and Mongols, w r ere also sources of terror. Their discipline 
was neglected and the soldiers often indulged in all sorts of excesses. 
While the poor people were cheated and robbed on every hand, the 
fate of their women was worse than death. Where complaints 
were useless, insurrections became necessities in course of time. 

Mohammed Ali, King of Khokand. — About this time the 
Mohammedans of Khokand, the near neighbors of Kashgaria, had 
a very ambitions King, named Mohammed Ali. As early as 1812, 
he refused to send any more tribute to China, a custom that had 
been kept up ever since the time of Ch'ien Lung's conquest of the 
New Dominion. The Tartar General at Hi knew that his govern- 
ment was in no position to carry on hostilities in Central Asia, 
and accordingly accepted the change without protest. This first 
concession was soon followed by others, and Mohammed Ali was 
even allowed to send consuls, or Akasakals, to collect duty on 
Mohammedan merchandise sold in the bazaars of Kashgar and 
\arkand. These A kasakals at once became the centres of intrigues. 
Apart from the collection of custom, they considered it their duty 
to further all seditious plans against China. Before they appeared 
on the scene, the Manchus had a peaceful colony, but after their 
arrival troubles soon arose. 

Jehangir's First Attempt to Gain Possession of Kash- 
garia. — At the time of Ch'ien Lung's conquest, most of the 



486 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

members of the old Khoja (^n]f-7K) family of Kashgar were put to 
death. Sarimsok was the only surviving boy, who succeeded in 
making good his escape into Khokand. He became a guest of the 
Khan of Khokand whose hospitality he enjoyed as long as he lived. 
One of the sons who survived him was Jehangir. Though his father 
had been contented to live a pensioner in the court of the Khan, 
Jehangir was not satisfied with such a quiet life. He could not 
forget the misfortunes of his family, and wculd not rest satisfied 
until he had made an effort to drive the Chinese out of Kashgaria. 
In Mohammed Ali, he found a most sympathetic friend. In 1822, 
the Khan having given him money and arms to make a descent 
upon Kashgaria, Jehangir secured the support of the Kirghis, or [he 
Purut (^ff H %) ; and, with what followers he was able to enlist, 
advanced toward Kashgar. But as the Manchus kept a better guard 
than Jehangir had expected, he was obliged to beat a hasty retreat 
to Lake Issik Kul. In 1825, General Baryenbatu (&M&M) set 
out with his contingent to locate the enemy; but for a hundred 
miles beyond the border, the Manchu General could find no trace of 
Jehangir. He finally come upon a party of the Kirghis; and, to 
vent his anger, he caused the unfortunate men, women and children 
to the number of one hundred to be put to death. Out of this 
appalling crime Baryenbatu evidently had intended to make a report 
of an alleged victory, but his brutality brought about his own 
destruction. Before he reached home, he was overtaken by the 
Chief of the Kirghis at the head of an overwhelming force, and 
he and all his men were slaughtered. This defeat gave Jehangir 
new hopes and brought him new adherents and new friends. 
Among these may be mentioned the Mohammedans of the cities 
of Kashgar, Yanghissar, Yarkand, and Khotand, who showed 
their sympathy by taking up arms against the frightened Chinese 
officials. 

When Tao Knang found out the state of affairs in Kashgaria, 
he ordered Ch'ing Hsiang (M #), the Tartar General of Hi, to Kash-, 
gar, and sent Grand Secretary Chang Ling (^ ft&) to take the place 
made vacant at Hi. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 487 

Jehangir in Possession of Kashgaria — In July 1826, 
Jehangir paid a visit to his ancestral tomb a short distance from the 
city of Kashgar. Although he had to retire on the approach of 
the Manchus, he came again in September; and was this time 
supported by a large army which Mohammed Ali had sent to his 
aid. Clring Hsiang made a mistake in leaving the citadel to accept 
battle. The result was a crushing defeat, which was followed by 
the capture of the four cities of Kashgaria. Upon the fall of 
Kashgar, Ch'ing Hsiang committed suicide. This city now became 
the headquarters of jehangir, who was proclaimed Sultan under the 
name of Seyyid Jehangir. His first act was to dismiss the Khokand 
soldiers and to inform Mohammed Ali that his assistance was no 
longer required. This over-confidence in his own strength, as we 
shall see presently, was the cause of his downfall. 

Jehangir One 3 More an Exhile. — While Jehangir busied 
himself with the organization of a government in Kashgar, no effort 
was spared by the Chinese in gathering a formidable army at Aksu. 
Xot only did the neighboring provinces of Shensi and Kansu 
send their contingents : but also the remote regions of Kirin and 
Heiiungkiang sent detachments of cavalry. Of this motley force, 
Grand Secretary Chang Ling was given the chief command, and 
instructed to send a flying column through Ushih and the mountain 
ranges to cut off the retreat of the enemy, while the main force 
marched towards Kashgar. He found it impossible to send the 
flying column because of the extreme difficulty and the little 
knowledge of the route. After a council of war the idea was 
given up. Leaving necessary reinforcements for the garrisons of 
Ushih and the neighboring cities, the main army, numbering about 
22,000 men, set out in March, 1827, to recover the lost territory. 

Jehangir, still confident of his own prowess, marched his army 
to Yangabad, where he decided to make a stand. The combatants 
were about equal in numbers and the battle was most desperately 
contested; but the result was a signal defeat for Jehangir. Towards 
midnight on March 26th, the victors encamped before the walls of 
Kashgar; and on the next day they carried the city by storm. Some 



488 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

4,000 persons, among whom were two Khokandian officers and some 
near relations of Jehangir, were either put to death or made prisoners. 
Jehangir himself, however, made good his escape into the Kirghis 
country; but by this single blow the prowess of Jehangir had totally 
disappeared. The other three cities could offer but little resist- 
ance and were one by one re- taken by the Chinese. Had General 
Chang Ling carried out his instructions it would have been impossi- 
ble for Jehangir to escape ; and for this failure he was severely cen- 
sured by the Emperor. To atone for his conduct, he sent Generals 
Yang Yu-ch'un (Hi&#) and Yang Fang ($ ^) with 8,000 men to 
seek the ambitious fugitive. The two generals took different routes. 
General Yang Fang encountered a large army of Khokandian soldiers, 
and in the skirmishes that ensued, he lost more than one half of his 
men. When this became known both generals were recalled and 
Jehangir was permitted to remain at large. General Yang Yu-ch'un 
was now ordered to take the Shensi and Kansu soldiers back to 
their homes; while General Yang Fang was made the second in 
command, and with 8,000 men was to guard Kashgar against any 
surprises. 

Capture of Jehangir. — Jehangir, in spite of his misfortunes, 
was still hopeful. By February 1828, he was as active as ever, and 
with 500 adherents he was once more ready to fight. When he 
reached the town of Arku (Bfif MS), he found that he had been de- 
ceived by being told that the Chinese army had been completely with- 
drawn, and that the garrison of Kashgar was as weak as ever. This 
information which General Yang Fang had caused to be carried to 
him, was now the cause of his death. Jehangir decided to retrace 
his steps into his mountain retreat but it was too late. On Mount 
Kaitiehkai (BlSii), he was captured by a superior force sent out 
by General Yang Fang and brought back to Kashgar a prisoner. 
From Kashgar, he was sent to Peking where, after a series of 
indignities, he was sentenced to die by the slicing process. Tao 
Kuang was so much gratified with the result of the Kashgarian 
campaign that he made Chang Ling a Duke of the Second Order 
(r: '% fc) and Yang Fang a Marquis of the Third Order (H # &). 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 489 

Invasion of Kashgaria by the Khokandians (1830). — In 

those early days, there was considerable overland trade in Chinese tea 
and medicine with Khokand. The Chinese thought that by stopping 
this trade entirely and by confiscating all the property of Khokandian 
merchants found in Kashgaria, they might ultimately bring the 
haughty Khan, Mohammed Ali, to terms. Nothing was more 
erroneous. Mohammed Ali would never suffer such indignities 
quietly; and, as soon as he heard of the return to Peking of both 
Generals Chang Ling and Yang Fang, and the withdrawal of the 
main portion of the Chinese army, he hastened to attack Kashgar 
with a strong force, and put forward Yusuf, the elder brother of 
Jehangir, as his successor on the Khoja throne. The invaders not 
only took possession of the Mohammedan towns of Kashgar, 
Yanghissar and Yarkand; but also laid siege to the Chinese quarters 
at all these places, and cut them off from communication with I!i. 
Hi. however, tried to send relief; but the commander of the detach- 
ment, Yung An (# £) by name, was a coward. Instead of march- 
ing to meet the enemy, he led his 4,000 men to Khotand, which 
was not in danger, and left the besieged garrisons to hold out as 
best they could. 

China Makes Peace with Khokand. — Once more Generals 
Chang Ling, Yang Yti-ch'un and Yang Fang led troops back to 
Kashgaria in haste. On their arrival they found that the enemy had 
quitted Chinese soil. The truth was that Mohammed Ali needed his 
men at home, as he was on the point, of breaking peaceful relations 
with Bokhara. In 1831 General Chang Ling, after months of 
negotiations, concluded a treaty with Khokand. China agreed to 
restore the previous arrangement respecting trade, and to return 
to the Khokandian merchants their property which had been 
confiscated. Khokand promised to return all Chinese prisoners of 
war and to restrain the Khoja princes in her territory. China 
wanted her to give up the latter as well as the prisoners of war, but 
was too weak to use force. The age of Ch'ien Lung had passed. 
Commissioner Xa Yen-ch'eng (MMlfc), who had confiscated the 
property of the Khokand merchants, and placed the embargo on 



490 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

trade, was cashiered. The afrangrneht effected by Chang Ling- 
secured peace to Kashgaria for a period of 15 years. 

The War with the Seven Khojas.— In the year 1847, 
Kashgaria was once more the scene of trouble. At this time there 
were seven Khoja pretenders instead of one, hence the event was 
recorded in the Chinese annals as " the war with the Seven Khojas " 
(-b5fij -^^c^SL). Only desultory fighting took place. The Akasa- 
kals, as usual, had done their best to incite the Mohammedan 
population lo rebel; but the latter, having lately enjoyed a milder 
form of government, did not respond with eagerness. For a short 
time, success seemed to favor the invaders, but upon the approach 
of reinforcements from Hi, they quit the country without making a 
stand. " The war with the Seven Khojas " was, therefore, of brief 
duration. Thus within the brief period of twenty-seven years., 
Kashgaria had been three times invaded, all on account of the claims 
of the Khojas. The Mohammedans had the same respect for their 
Khojas as the Tibetans have for their Dalai Lamas. So long as 
there were representatives of the old Khoja family of Kashgar in 
Khokand so long was there cause for trouble. 

The remaining years of Tao Kuang were occupied by a war 
with England, the details of which will be told in the next chapter. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 491 

CHAPTER LIU 

CHINA'S FIRST FOREIGN WAR 

Causes of the War. — During the years 1840-1843, China was 
for the rirst time at war with England. This is commonly known 
as the Opium War, a term which is somewhat misleading. That 
China's determination to stamp out the opium trade was the 
immediate cause of the war, there is no room to doubt. But there 
were other causes. For ages it was the custom of China to look 
down upon all foreigners as barbarians, who had no right to come 
to her shores, save for the purpose of paying her tribute. This war 
was waged by England for the avowed purpose of breaking down 
this high wall of ignorance and seclusion, as w T ell as to demand 
compensation for damage done to English merchants. Viewed in 
the light of subsequent events, England was undoubtedly to blame 
for forcing a baneful trade on China. On the other hand, China's 
arrogance, it must be admitted, afforded England a just cause for 
taking up arms against her. 

Early Introduction of Opium. — Opium is mentioned in 
Chinese annals as early as the eighth century, and was presumably 
brought into China for medicinal purposes by the Arabs. Its Chinese 
name, A Fu Jitng (PSf^^), is thought to be the corruption of 
the Arabian name, Afion. The next mention of opium is found 
t6wards the close of the Ming Dynasty. The customs statistics, 
compiled for the year 1859, show that ten catties of opium were, 
in those days, worth two " silver bars." 

As early as 1729, or the 7th year of the reign of Yung Cheng, 
laws were made interdicting the use of opium. It is safe to con- 
clude that the habit of smoking opium had, by this time, begun to 
work great havoc among the Chinese, or it would not have aroused 
the attention of the Imperial Government. These laws, however, 
failed to stop the evil at which they were aimed, and increasing quan- 
tities of opium continued to pour in from India under the fostering 
influences of the East India Company, an English eompany which 



492 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

had the monopoly of the China trade. Canton, then the center 
of this trade, was the doorway through which opium found an 
entrance. 

Opium Smuggling at Canton. — In 1800, the Imperial 
Government made renewed efforts to suppress the use of opium. 
Stringent decrees were issued in rapid succession. China, indeed, 
can boast of many good laws, but not always of good men to 
enforce them. So it was in this case. As long as the demand for 
opium existed, the supply came; and if it could not be brought into 
the country openly, it was done clandestinely. By means of 
systematic bribery, opium smuggling, therefore, went on at Canton 
without hindrance. Large receiving ships were stationed at 
Lingting (f^ tT) and vicinity, while numerous smaller craft under the 
English and other foreign flags plied back and forth on the Canton 
River in their attempts to land opium. To the officials and their 
subordinates, to the foreign capitalists, to the local bad characters, 
and to the pirates along the coast, opium smuggling meant a short 
cut to wealth. It is estimated that 3,210 chests of opium valued 
at $3,657,000 (Spanish) were consumed in China in 1816; and 
18,760 chests valued at $12,900,031 (Spanish) in 1830. In other 
words, the consumption had more than trebled every three years. 
All this quantity found its way into China through the smugglers. 

Lord Napier Appointed First Superintendent of Trade- 
in April 1834, the Charter of the East India Company expired. 
Thereupon the English Government undertook the protection of the 
China trade by the appointment of a superintendent. Hitherto this 
trade had been controlled, on the one side, by the East India 
Company, represented at Canton by a supercargo ; and on the other, 
by the notorious system of co-hong, — a committee of Chinese 
merchants, who guaranteed all debts due to the foreigners, the 
amount of fees, or " squeezes,'' to be given to the provincial 
authorities, and the customs dues to be paid to the Hupu (p $R). 
It seems that the object the English Government had in appointing 
a superintendent of trade was to put a stop to this state of affairs. 
Lord Napier, who had the honor of being the first occupant of the 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



493 



newly-created office, was not only expected to foster and protect 
the trade; but also to extend it to other parts of the Chinese Empire, 
and to open direct communication with the Central Government. 

In compliance with his instructions, Lord Napier proceeded 
from Macao to Canton, without first obtaining permission from the 
Viceroy through the hong merchants as had been the custom, and 
reported his arrival to the same high authority by letter. Un- 
fortunately Lu K'un (til), the Viceroy, was ready to grant •' a 
barbarian eye"(^H), as Lord Napier was called, no right, or 



— £L 



-C«CscS«« 







privilege, other than those enjoyed by the supercargoes. As Napier 
insisted upon his right to address him on terms of equality, he 
became very much offended, suspended the English trade, and 
ordered native servants to leave their employ. At this juncture, 
Lord Napier's health gave way, and he had to return to Macao 
where he soon died, leaving Viceroy Lu K'un to boast of his 
triumph. Upon the new Superintendent's departure from Canton, 
permission had at once been given for trade to be resumed, but it 
was subjected to more restrictions than ever. 



494 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Napier's Successors.— The situation at Canton remained 
practically unchanged during the regime of Sir George Robinson as 
superintendent. He never resided at Canton, and had no direct com- 
munication with the Viceroy. 

In 1836 Sir George was succeeded by Captain Elliot, who was 
very conciliatory in his dealings with the Chinese authorities; and 
went as far as to style his communications " Ping" (M), a form of 
document that an inferior officer in China has to use when addressing 
a superior. Elliot was permitted to reside at Canton, and to re-open 
communications with the authorities, otherwise there was no improve- 
ment in the relations between the Chinese and English. 

Discussion of the Opium Question. — About this time, the 
opium question suddenly took on a new phase. It was discovered 
that for many, many years millions of taels had been taken out of 
China, and now she was brought face to face with a specie famine. 
According to the officials, China had received no benefit whatever 
fur all this vast wealth, except the baneful opium. Thus the opium 
traffic at Canton became at once the great financial question of the 
day. and the Imperial Court at Peking w ? as much troubled as to how 
the great efflux of silver could be stopped. Officials both within and 
without the capital were invited to express their opinions on this 
important subject, and many able arguments were consequently 
advanced against the traffic. One of the authors of these arguments 
was Lin Tse-hsti ($; $J i£), a native of Foochow. He was as ener- 
getic as he was outspoken; and as Viceroy of Hukuang, he had inau- 
gurated with success a general crusade against the use of opium. 

Lin Tse-hsii's Appointment as Imperial High Com- 
missioner. — The Emperor Tao Kuang thought that he had found 
in Lin Tse-hsti the man he needed to carry out his anti-opium 
policy at Canton. Accordingly he appointed Lin Imperial High 
Commissioner, and clothed him with ample powers to deal with the 
situation. On March 10, 1839, Commissioner Lin arrived at 
Canton. It is claimed that opium smuggling had actually stopped 
before his arrival. His name was such a terror to the corrupt 
Canton officials that thev found it to their interest to desist, for a 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 495 

lime at least, from participating in a crime which depended largely 
upon their help and support for its commission. 

Surrender and Destruction of Opium at Canton. — Six 
days after his arrival, Commissioner Lin ordered the English 
merchants to deliver to him all the opium in their possession. At 
first they were willing to give up a small portion only, but he 
was not satisfied with their partial compliance. He surrounded the 
factories with soldiers, deprived the foreigners of their native 
servants, and stopped their fresh supplies. This severe measure 
had the desired effect. By May 4th, more than 20,000 chests of 
opium, representing a market value of not much less than $9,000,000, 
were delivered to him through Captain Elliot. This vast quantity of 
opium, which the Commissioner wished to send overland to Peking as 
evidence of his triumph, was by the Emperor's orders to be destroyed 
at Canton. The work of destruction was done at the Bogue in a very 
thorough manner. The opium was first mixed in trenches with 
lime and salt water and then drawn off into the sea. One man was 
decapitated for attempting to steal a small quantity. Who can 
accuse the Chinese Government of insincerity when she preferred 
to destroy what was harmful to the people rather than to fill her 
treasury with its sale ? 

Shortly before the destruction of the opium, which took place 
on June 3, 1839, Captain Elliot and the British residents had all left 
Canton for Macao. 

New Opium Code. — The destruction of Opium at Canton 
was but the beginning of the arduous work the Chinese Govern- 
ment had undertaken. Determined that this work should be 
energetically prosecuted, the Emperor Tao Kuang promulgated 
what is known as the New Opium Cede (?,! )r M $'J). According 
to this Code, to import, sell, grow, or prepare opium was a crime 
punishable by death, or banishment; and persons addicted to its 
use were to be condemned to die by strangulation, unless they 
could get rid of the habit within 18 months. 

Foreigners not being under Chinese laws, Commissioner 
Lin ordered every foreign merchant to file a bond binding 
himself not to engage in the opium trade on penalty of summary 



496 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

execution and confiscation of ship and cargo. Some Portuguese 
and Americans complied with his order, but Captain Elliot ob- 
jected. 

Commencement of Hostilities at Canton.— To compel 
the English to place themselves under the Chinese law, the 
Commissioner again resorted to drastic measures. He caused the 
Macao authorities to refuse hospitality to the English, and pre- 
vented the people on the coast from supplying them with water 
or vegetables. The English with sad hearts embarked on board 
their ships which set sail and finally anchored in the harbor of 
Hongkong. 

Two English frigates were then at Chuanpi (Ji| HO. As the 
sailors could not obtain their fresh supplies by any other means, 
they seized what they needed, and caused many unpleasant scenes. 
The ships also had several encounters with the forts, and on 
November 3rd fought a regular engagement with a fleet of Chinese 
war junks. One junk was blown up, three were sunk, while the 
rest retired in great disorder. 

When the Chuanpi affair was reported to Peking, the Emper- 
or Tao Kuang lost no time in issuing an edict (January 3, 
1840) forbidding all trade with England, although trade had 
already stopped. In those early days, such an edict virtually 
amounted to a formal declaration of war against England. 

England, on her part, was busy with preparaticns for war. 
Parliament having during the early session of 1840 sustained the 
Government's proposal in regard to the China question, an 
expedition was being sent out under the command of Sir Gordon 
Bremer, subject to the control of Rear Admiral George Elliot and 
Captain Elliot, Joint Plenipotentiaries. This expedition, consisting 
of 4,000 troops on board twenty-five transports with a convoy of 
fifteen warships, arrived at the mouth of the Canton River in 
June 1840. Shortly after its arrival, Sir Gordon Bremer declared 
a blockade of the port of Canton. 

First Occupation of Tinghai. — On July 4th, Bremer's 
squadron of five men-of-war, three steamers and twenty-one 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 497 

transports, reached the Tinghai harbor, off the coast of 
Chekiang, having made a demonstration at Amoy on its way 
north. The authorities were summoned to surrender, and as they 
refused, the place was bombarded the following morning. A few 
minutes sufficed to silence the forts. Then the troops landed and 
took possession of the city. Tinghai, it should be remarked, is 
the capital of Chusan, which served as the English base of 
operations during the greater part of the war. 

The fall of Tinghai filled the minds of the provincial authori- 
ties with consternation. They could see no reason why they 
should be held accountable for anything done at Canton. As 
they were powerless to punish the enemy, they vented their 
wrath upon the poor Commissioner Lin. Owing to their mis- 
representations to Peking, the Emperor's confidence in his Com- 
missioner was badly shaken. Tao Kuang now accused him of 
"having dissembled with empty words, and of having caused the 
waves of confusion to rise" (^f ii'Ritl). He also sent 
Viceroy Ilipu (fU), of Nanking, to Chekiang to investigate 
matters ; and ordered the officials along the coast to forward to 
Peking whatever communication the enemy might desire to 
make. 

Lord Palmerston's Letter. — The primary object that Sir 
Gordon Bremer had in making the northward movement was to 
open up communication with the Central Government. He had 
in his possession a letter from Lord Palmerston, the English 
Primier, which he was to deliver into the hands of some responsible 
Chinese official for transmission to Peking. This letter set forth 
the complaints the English Government had against China and 
also the terms that she was prepared to accept. This communica- 
tion was offered at both Amoy and Ningpo, but the authorities at 
both places refused to have anything to do with it. Accordingly 
Captain Elliot and Sir Gordon Bremer sailed with the fleet to the 
mouth of the Peiho (^b M) . By authority of the recent order from 
the Emperor Tao Kuang, Viceroy Ch'i Shan (3&#), of Chihli, 
accepted the letter and forwarded it to Peking as desired. 



498 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Cli'i Shan was a diplomat of no mean ability. He told Cap- 
tain ElHot that his Government was prepared to punish Commis- 
sioner Lin most severely when the true facts in connection with 
the surrender and destruction of the opium came to light, and 
succeeded in getting him to withdraw the fleet and to agree to 
open negotiations for peace at Canton. In pursuance of the 
understanding with Ch'i Shan, Captain Elliot therefore sailed 
away with the fleet to Chusan, and after leaving a small garrison 
there, at length, returned to Macao. 

Bombardment of the Bogue Forts. — Almost at the same 
time as the attack on Chusan, the English men-of-war, charged 
with the duty of maintaining the blockade of Canton, were 
obliged to resume offensive operations against the Chinese on 
account of the carrying away from Macao of one Vincent Stanton, 
a British subject. After a heavy bombardment of the Bogue 
forts, a party of marines landed and took the Chinese positions. 
The forts and barracks were then destroyed and Stanton was 
returned. 

This attack upon the Bogue forts completed the downfall of 
Lin Tse-hsii. Deprived of all rank he was sent to Peking to await 
his trial by the Board of Punishments, and his place was given to 
Ch'i Shan. 

Medley of Peace and War at Canton.— Ch'i Shan arrived 
at Canton in the capacity of Imperial High Commissioner, Nov. 
29, 1840. As Admiral Elliot was an invalid, the negotiations on 
behalf of the English Government were, for a time, conducted by 
Captain Elliot alone. For nearly six weeks nothing" definite was 
arrived at, owing principally to the procrastination of Ch*'i Shan. 
At last on Jan. 7, 1841, Sir Gordon Bremer, tired of the unrea- 
sonable delay, gave orders for a second attack on the Bogue forts, 
and in a few days both the importants fortifications at Shako 
($> %) and Tako (;*: ;%) were taken by the English. 

Resistance was hopeless and no one knew it better than Ch'i Shan 
himself. Alarmed at the sudden turn of affairs, he now agreed to 
all the terms that had been demanded. These terms included 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 499 

the cession of Hongkong and an indemnity of $6,000,000 for the 
opium that had been destroyed by Commissioner Lin. On his 
part, Captain Elliot agreed to the evacuation of both Chusan and 
the Bogue forts. 

The Emperor Tao Kuang, however, was not ready for peace, 
but was bent on war. About the time the convention was signed 
at Canton, he issued an edict directing that all warlike prepara- 
tions should be continued, and appointed a commission of three 
members to conduct the campaign at Canton. The President of 
this commission, Ishan (^Uj), was a member of the Imperial 
family; while General Yang Fang (if? ^), a distinguished soldier, 
who had seen much warfare, was one of the associate commis- 
sioners. Nor did the Emperor forget the province of Chekiang. 
To this province he sent Viceroy Yu Ch'ien (f& W.) , of Eiangkiang, 
as Imperial High Commissioner; while Ilipu was ordered to 
return to his former post at Nanking. Under these circumstances 
it was not surprising that Ch'i Shan was powerless to carry out the 
provisions of his own agreement. In spite of his best efforts to 
keep the facts from the foreigners, it was soon found out that 
soldiers were pouring in from the neighboring privinces . At the 
same time every thing was being done to strengthen the Chinese 
positions around Canton. 

To anticipate the Chinese, the Commander of the English 
fleet once more gave orders for an attack on the Bogue forts. 
This time the line of inner forts, guarding the approaches of 
Canton, were engaged and captured, together with all the guns 
which had been recently mounted by Commissioner Ljn ; and 
Admiral Kuan T'ien-p'ei (IS 5c *t ) was killed. Although the 
Chinese were strengthened by the arrival on March 5, 1841, of 
General Yang Fang and a party of Hunan soldiers, numbering 
about a thousand, the enemy had successfully cleared the river of 
all obstacles, and was at the very gateway of Canton. Moreover 
the British forces were now led by a dashing soldier, Sir Hugh 
Gough, who had recently arrived to take the supreme direction of 
affairs. 



500 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

The English success was marked by the return of the 
merchants to their factories outside the city of Canton. In spite 
of the refusal of the Emperor to ratify Ch'i Shan's convention, 
Hongkong had been proclaimed an English possession and troops 
withdrawn from Chusan to garrison it. Ch'i Shan, for having 
ceded this territory to the enemy on his own authority, was sum- 
marily dismissed and sent to Peking as a public criminal to 
receive his sentence at the hands of the Board of Punishments. 

First Attack on Canton City and the Subsequent Truce.— 
On April 17, 1841, General Ishan, the Commander-in-Chief, and 
President Eung Wen, the third member of the Commission, both 
arrived at Canton. While the merchants were actively engaged 
in trade, the Commissioners were kept busy with plans to expel 
the unwelcome foreigner. By the middle of May, there were in 
the neighborhood of Canton about 40,000 soldiers, and with these 
the Commissioners were ready to begin operations. During the 
night of May 21st, the batteries which had been secretly put up 
along the banks of the Canton river opened fire simultaneously 
upon the ships and the factories, and a number of fire rafts bore 
down upon the former in the harbor in the hope of setting them 
on fire. Unfortunately these schemes of the Commissioners 
proved such a complete failure that very little damage was done 
to the enemy's ships. From the factories, however, the Chinese 
carried off all that they could lay their hands on, and that was the 
only success they could boast of that night. 

The English assumed the offensive on the following day, and 
they not only destroyed the batteries, but also a number of war 
junks. Happily Captain Elliot, during the day, had issued a 
notice advising all foreigners to leave Canton ; or the raid upon 
the factories would have been attended by a great loss of life. 

At the time these events took place, Sir Hugh Gough was at 
Hongkong; but, on receipt of the news, he promptly returned on 
May 24th with all the forces under him. The attack on the city 
of Canton itself was now decided upon ; but as the Chinese had 
built a line of forts on the heights to the north of their city, it w 7 as 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 501 

necessary to take them first. When this was done, the Com- 
missioners began to realize the hopelessness of the situation 
and sent the Prefect of Canton to sue for peace. They agreed to 
ransom the city for $6,000,000 and to withdraw the Tartar and 
other troops sixty miles from Canton. The amount of the ransom 
having been paid in full, the English troops embarked on board 
their ships on May 31st, and left Canton without attacking the city. 
In compliance with the terms of the agreement the Commis- 
sioners also withdrew their forces to Chinshan (^kllj), where 
President Lung Wen soon died. 

Fall of Amoy, Tinghai, Chenhai and Ningpo. —The 

arrangement made at Canton was necessarily a truce and not a 
treaty. While it stopped the fighting in that region, it did not touch 
upon the question of future intercourse; and did not secure to the 
English the right of direct communication with the Central Govern- 
ment. That question was still far from settlement at the end of June, 
1841. At that time Captain Elliot was superceded by Sir Henry 
Pottinger, and the fleet was placed under the supreme command of 
Vice-Aclmiral Parker. The new English Plenipotentiary, Sir Henry 
Pottinger, had been instructed not to treat with the provincial 
authorities ; and consequently he sailed north with a fleet of 9 men- 
of-war, 4 steamers and 23 transports. The following places now 
fell in rapid succession: Amoy, off the coast of Fukien, (Aug. 25), 
Tinghai (Sept. 26) , Chenhai (Oct. 10), and Ningpo (Oct. 13). At 
Tinghai, the Chinese made a heroic stand, and lost three of their 
generals, namely, Ko Yun-fei Cggffe), W T ang Hsi-peng (3E $& 18) 
and Chen Kuo-hung. At Chenhai, across the bay, things were 
different. There Commissioner Yii Ch'ien, deserted by his officers 
and men, was obliged to commit suicide. His death was followed 
by the unopposed occupation of the prefectural city of Ningpo ; and 
although the people wrote on their doors the characters signifying 
" Submission People," still they were required to pay a large ransom. 
After the fall of Ningpo, the English for a while made no 
further advance. The disastrous events in Afghanistan were monop- 
olizing the attention of their home government. 



502 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Attempts to Retake Ningpo and Chenhai.— If the English 
hoped to secure their ends from the proud Emperor Tao Kuang, by 
holding a few cities on the coast, they were disappointed. Tao Kuang 
could not see the hopelessness of the situation; and still believed that 
the resources of his empire would eventually turn the tide in his 
favor. Availing himself of the lull in the storm, he sent one 
commissioner after another to the scene of conflict until there were 
three in Chekiang province, and all Manchus of high rank. (They 
were Iching, Grand Secretary (3z^±$gM), Wen Wei, Vice-President 
of a Metropolitan Board (f# M 3tM), and T'eishun, Lieut. -General 
of the Manchu Army (f $ %fc 4# #c M) . He also sent troops from 
Honan, Shensi, and other provinces to Chekiang. By the beginning 
of March, 1842, everything seemed to be ready for the Chinese to 
drive out the foreigners; and, under cover of darkness, the 
Commissioners began to deliver simultaneous attacks upon the two 
cities of Ningpo and Chenhai. The Chinese numbered about 
10,000, but numbers counted little in the face of superior weapons; 
and they were driven away with great slaughter, although they did 
succeed at one time in gaining the gates of the cities. 

On March 15th, the enemy once more assumed the offensive by 
attacking Tzii Ch'i (3£$t), a town about 10 miles from Ningpo. 
They routed a large body of men there and drove them towards 
Hsihsing (M H) ; and might have continued their march towards 
Hangchow, the base of the Chinese Commissioners, had they not 
received fresh instructions which completely changed their plan 
of action. 

Fall of Chapu, Woosung, Shanghai, and Chinkiang. — 

The credit for these fresh instructions belonged to Earl Ellenborough, 
Governor-General of India. He saw that the war had been waged 
for more than a year without any permanent result, and thought 
that a more effective way of coercing the Chinese Government lay in 
an attempt to prevent the tribute rice from reaching Peking. The 
Yangtze River was navigable as far as Nanking and, therefore, 
afforded the means for executing the new plan. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 503 

In accordance with this new plan, all the English forces, 
excepting what were necessary for the garrison of Chusan, evacuated 
the mainland of Chekiang on May 7th, and once more sailed north 
on board their transports with the convoy of warships. On May 
17th, they reached Cliapu (^Jf), a port in North Chekiang 
appointed for the Japanese trade, and easily captured the place and 
destroyed a large quantity of war material. 

Leaving Chapu, the fleet made for the mouth of the 
Yangtze River. At Woosung it met with desperate opposition; but 
upon the death of General Ch'en Hua-ch'eng ($Hfc j£), Command- 
ant of the forts, who was instantly killed, all resistance melted 
away. The fall of the cities of Paoshan and Shanghai then 
occurred. Following the course of the river, the fleet soon appeared 
before the walls of Chinkiang (lift), a city of immense strategic 
importance, situated at the junction of the Yangtze and the Grand 
Canal. The mere appearance of the enemy sufficed to put the 
large body of soldiers encamped outside the city to flight. The 
Manchu garrison of the town, true to the tradition of the 
Tartars, showed a brave front; and, after most of them had been 
either killed or wounded, preferred suicide to surrender. General 
Hai Ling ($&ft&), the commander of the garrison, having told his 
servants to set fire to his own house, perished with his family in 
the flames. 

Treaty of Nanking. — The continued success of the English 
at last brought the Manchu Government to its knees. Indeed, the 
Emperor Tao Kuang had sent both Ch'i-ying (fr 3£) and Ilipu to 
Chekiang to ascertain the views of the English before their fleet left 
Chusan for the Yangtze. But the commissioners were not clothed 
with proper credentials, and Sir Henry Pottinger could not treat with 
them. From Chekiang the commissioners had to travel all the way 
to Nanking ; and this time, were able to produce the necessary papers. 
These were produced none too soon to save Nanking. The joint 
plenipotentiaries and Niu Chien (^ i£), Viceroy of the Liangkiang, 
then signed with Sir Henry Pottinger on board H. B. M. S. Corn- 
wallis, the famous Treaty of Nanking (August 29th, 1842). The 



504 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

English celebrated the happy event by a national salute of twenty-one 
guns, and by the display of the flags of the two nations at the top 
of the foremast. 

The important provisions of the treaty were: — (1) Peace 
between China and England; (2) Six million dollars indemnity to 
be paid by China for the opium destroyed, three million for debts 
due English merchants, and twelve million for expenses of the war; 
(3) The ports of Canton, Amoy, Foochow, Nmgpo and Shanghai 
to be opened to foreign trade and residence; (4) The cession of 
Hongkong; (5) Prisoners of war to be released; (6) An amnesty 
for all Chinese who had assisted the English in the Avar; (7) Future 
intercourse to be conducted on terms of equality; and (8) Places 
held by the English to be restored as the indemnity payments were 
made. No mention was made of the opium question. 

Shortly after the signing of the treaty, the full force of 
Tao Kuang's wrath fell heavily upon the provincial authorities who 
had failed to carry the war to a successful issue. Thus Viceroy Niu 
Chien, Commissioners Ishan and Ichin, and others were degraded, 
removed from office or sent to prison. The Viceroyaliy of Nanking 
was then given to Ch'i-ying and the Tartar Generalship of Canton 
to Ilipu. On the English side, Sir Henry Pottinger was rewarded 
with the Governorship of Hongkong by Queen Victoria. 

The Customs Tariff ; American and French Treaties. — 

General Ilipu was also charged with the duty of arranging a regular 
tariff with Sir Henry Pottinger in accordance with the stipulations 
of the Nanking Treaty. Upon Ilipu's death at Canton in March 
1843, his unfinished task was intrusted to Ch'i-ying, who was now 
transferred to Canton as Viceroy of the Two Kuang Provinces. In 
June Ch'i-ying paid a visit to Hongkong in order to exchange the 
ratifications of the Nanking Treaty; and on Oct. 8, 1843, signed with 
Sir Henry Pottinger at the Bogue a supplementary treaty. Both of 
these agreements were really extorted from China at the mouth of 
the cannon; and could not, therefore, continue to be respected for 
any great length of time. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 505 

In the following year there were signed, at the Bogue, the 
American and the French Treaties, which were based upon the 
Treaty of Nanking as a model. In both cases Clri-ying represented 
the Imperial Government. At the instance of the French Minister, 
the Emperor Tao Kuang issued a decree promising toleration to 
Christianity, which, it will be recalled, had been placed under the ban 
of a secret society during the previous reign. 






506 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER LIV 

THE FIRST STAGE OF THE TAIPING REBELLION 

The Taipings. — Before the echoes of the First Foreign War 
had died away, China was the scene of a great uprising, such as had 
not occurred since the time of the San Fan (H?§) Rebellion. A 
handful of young men, inflamed by new religious ideas, raised the 
standard of revolt in Kuangsi province, swept down the Yangtze, 
and founded a semblance of government at Nanking. They then 
deteriorated rapidly and were finally conquered and dispersed. As 
most of them came from Kuangsi province and they all wore their 
hair long, they were called either the Kuangsi, or the Long-haired 
Rebels, by the Chinese historians. To foreigners they were known 
as the Taipings or Taiping Rebels, because they called their king- 
dom Taiping T'ienkuo (jk^ViM), the Heavenly Kingdom of Peace. 

Early Life of Hung Hsiu-chuan.— Hung Hsiu-chuan (g^£), 
the ring-leader of the Taipings, was a native of HuaHsien (# $1), a 
place about 30 miles north of Canton. Born in 1813 in a poor family, 
he had but a smattering of the Chinese classics ; and, though he went 
to Canton several times for examination, he failed to take his literary 
degree. On one of these occasions in 1833, he came into contact 
with Christianity. Three years later he failed again in the examina- 
tion, and became so despondent that during a subsequent illness he saw 
visions which revealed to him his future career. It is quite possible 
that the whole story of the visions was false; but it appealed power- 
fully to the superstition of the masses of China. Hung Hsiu-chuan 
now gave up all his classics and devoted his time to the teaching of 
Christianity as he understood it. With Fung Yun-shan UI g Uj), he 
repaired to Kuangsi and there formed the Shangti Hui (±%rit), a 
society for the worship of God. This society was persecuted by 
the authorities and the neighbors ; and the " brethren " and 
" sisters," as they were called, soon found it necessary to unite 
together not only for the purpose of worship, but also for self- 
defence. In 1847, Hung Hsiu-chuan went to J. J. Roberts, an 
American missionary at Canton, for instruction; but was not baptized. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 507 

Unrest in Kuangsi. — Separated by a distance of some 1,200 
miles from Peking, and peopled with an incongruous population, 
Kuangsi had always been the land of lawlessness. Under an old 
and enfeebled Governor, named Cheng Tsu-ch'en (HfciLgD, many 
secret societies had sprung into existence throughout the prefectures 
of Liuchow ($MtI), Ssu-en (® &), Hsinchow (J* JH), Wuchow (HJH) 
and Nanning (^ HO ; and they were more than enough to keep the 
government troops busy. In the meantime, the future Taiping 
Rebellion was gradually gathering at Chin-t'ien (^ K), a village 
between the districts of T'enghsien (H II) and Pingnan C 2 ?- ]%*) ; and 
Hung Hsiu-chuan soon found himself the acknowledged leader of a 
band of men full of religious enthusiasm and superior in discipline 
to any force the Governor could send against him. 

The Fall of Ynngan. — As soon as the condition of affairs in 
Kuangsi became sufficiently known in Peking, the Government 
appointed Lin Tse-hsii ($c H'J fe), the High Commissioner of 1839, |2p£ 
Commander-in-Chief, w T ith power to direct all military operations \-j- 
within Kuangsi. Lin_ died inJL8 50 at S watow, witho ut ever seein g 
the rebels, and was succeeded by. Li Hsing-jyuan (^ M. jjc^ The latter 
did arrive in Kuangsi ; but_uiieiLbeforx-iie--4ook up his w_ork in the 
following year. Meanwhile the Taipings had gained many victories 
over the Imperial troops; and had also captured the Availed city of 
Yungan (zfcS), a point of great strategic importance in north 
Kuangsi. In this city Hung Hsiu-chuan, for the first time, adopted the 
titleofjT!knJ^ang_iX^u_or Heavenly King, for himself; and at the- r 
same time conferred princely titles upon several of his lieutenants. 
Yungan was closely invested by the Imperialists in February 1852. 
Had the commanders under Sai Shang-ou (^ f£f |ffif), the successor of 7 
Li Hsing-yiian, only been able to forget their personal disagreements 
in the face of the enemy, the Taipings would never have escaped 
from Kuangsi. 

Escape of the Taipings from Ynngan; Fall of Nanking. — 
The Taipings were in such straits in April, 1852, that they 
abandoned Yungan, and cut their way through the outposts of the 
Imperial troops. Once out of their prison, they gathered up 



508 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

strength as they went, and attacked Kueilin (J£ flc), the capital of 
the province. Having failed to take this city, they next forced their 
way into Hunan, captured Taochow (ilM), Kueiyang (& PI), and 
Ch'enchow ($$ jHO, and arrived before the walls of Changsha (^ ^>) in 
November. Avoiding this city, the centre of the Imperial forces, 
they moved in the direction of Changte (3Mi). At Iyang (^ li), 
they seized a flotilla of boats, and in these they sailed to Yochow 
(•EU'I'I). This important city, the key to the Yangtze, was in fact 
abandoned with all of its supplies and transports before their 
arrival. Thus with comparative ease the Taipings had reached the 
Yangtze. They now merely followed the course of the river, and 
found nothing to prevent their advance. Wuchang ($; H), the 
capital of Hupeh, fell before their arms in January 1853; Kiukiang 
(%$!), an important port in Kiangsi, and Anking (3c IS), the capital 
of Anhui, in February ; and on March 8th the insurgents were before 
Nanking, the ancient capital of the Empire. In ten days the wall of 
the city was breached and carried by storm, when the whole of the 
Manchu garrison was put to the sword. In another month the 
insurgents captured Chinkiang (IStl), Yangchow (HjJtl), and Kua- 
chow (JMtl), which gave them the complete control not only of the 
Yangtze River but also of the Grand Canal. FromJVlarch 15^1853, 
to July 19, 1864, Nanking was the capital of the Taiping Kingdom. 

Military Organization of the Taipings. — The military 
system of the Taipings was very complete. Their army was 
organized in squads of 25, companies of 100, battalions of 500, 
regiments of 2,500, and divisions of 12,500. At the time of their 
departure from Yungan they had but one division ; but as they swept 
down the Hsiang River (M t£) in Hunan, and the Yangtze through 
Hupeh, Kiangsi, and Anhui, to Kiangsu, their ranks were swollen by 
thousands who joined their standards for the mere love of war and 
plunder. It is estimated that by the time they arrived at Nanking 
they had some 600,000 men and 500,000 women, the latter being 
organized into companies and separately brigaded. There were no 
signs of the ordinary immorality of a camp. The use of opium, 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 509 

tobacco, and wine was forbidden among the Taipings. They tied up 
"Their long hair with a red turban and left its ends hanging loosely 
behind them. During their degenerate days, they tatooed their new 
adherents with the characters "Taiping T'ienkua," in order to 
prevent them from going over to the Imperialists. 

During their last days, there were as many as 2,700 princes 
among the Taipings, when at the outset there had been but five. 
These were the Eastern, Northern, Southern, Western and the 
Assistant Princes. Below the order of princes there were f out- 
classes of nobles, viz. :— Chang T'ien-an (m^£), Shih T'ien-fu 
(# 5£ R) , Ch'eng T'ien-yii (#c 5c W and Ting T'ien-en (3K 3*c M) . The 
Taipings were as fond of the character T'ien CX), "heaven," as they 
were proud of their alleged divine mission. 

Civil Government. — In the way of civil administration, the 
Taipings supplied practically nothing in place of what they destroy- 
ed. To maintain their court and army, they called upon the people 
to pay " tribute," which must be either in grain or cash. When 
these were not willingly offered, they helped themselves to whatever 
they could lay their hands on. Bronzes, curios, and other articles of art 
were always destroyed wherever found. Temples of all descriptions 
were burned, because they were places of pagan worship, and be- 
cause they frequently sheltered Imperial troops and militia. Books 
shared the same fate as the temples, presumably because they were 
inconsistent with the teaching of the Heavenly King. To get reve- 
nue from the domestic trade, the Taipings maintained a few custom 
stations along the Yangtze, but no protection was given to the 
people. 

Laws. — The laws of the Taipings were few and cruel. These 
laws were based more or less on the Mosaic Code, as they knew it. 
The torture, known as the Heavenly Lamp, or Tien T'ien Teng (Jgfi 
5£ £&), was as bad as any ever invented. The victim, tied with silk 
or cloth soaked in oil, was made to stand on his head, and was thus 
burned to death. The Taipings naturally had objections to the 
Chinese calendar with its code of lucky and unlucky stars ; and in its 
place, they adopted the simpler system of the West. 



510 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Their Faith.— At the outset the religious faith of the Taipings 
had much in common with the Protestant form of Christianity. Yet 
they corrupted it to such an extent that it became an entirely different 
creed. For instance, they believed that their " Heavenly King " was 
no less a personage than the " Younger Brother of Jesus Christ/' 
whom they called " Elder Brother." With them it was nothing un- 
usual for their " Heavenly Father " to come to earth and speak to 
man through one of their princes; and this was especially the case at 
meetings where orders relating to the movement of troops, or the 
administration of justice, were to be given. Orders given in this 
manner, were as a matter of course, implicitly obeyed. In addition 
to their catchwords the Taipings had other peculiar terms of their 
own. Thus Chungsiaotzu (^ /> J-) (Thy little Children) meant 
themselves ; and Weihsiao (^ >» (Children at Large), those who had 
accepted their authority but not their faith. These terms were freely 
used in religious papers and also in their official documents. The 
Manchus and their friends were ail considered " Devils " ; and the 
prayers of the Taipings usually ended with the cry, "Kill the Devils 
and kill them all." 

Reports of the wonderful success of the Taipings in gaining 
adherents to Christianity, and in defeating the Manchus, naturally 
attracted the attention of Europe and America to their progress. 
Consequently the representatives of Great Britain, France and the 
United States, under instructions from their respective governments, 
visited Nanking on different occasions to study the religious system 
of the Taipings. Every one of them told his government to observe 
strict neutrality, as in his opinion the Taipings were not worthy of 
recognition or help.* To the failure of the Taipings to act so as to 
obtain the sympathy and support of the Christian world, must be 
ascribed their final ruin. 

Progress of the Taipings North of the Yangtze River.— 
With their headquarters safely established at Nanking, the Taipings 
threw a strong column across the river for the purpose of attacking 



* The United States was on the point of recognizing the Taipings as the de 
faeto Government of China when she received the report from her minister. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 511 

Peking. This column was under the command of Lin Feng-hsiang 
(ft JBL W), one of the ablest officers the Taipings ever had. Avoiding 
the centre of a Manchu army collected in the vicinity of Yangchow, 
he entered North Anhui by way of the Lin Huai Pass (^^M), 
and was joined by another column at Po Chow (^ jW) on the border 
of that province. The united army then forced its way into Honan; 
but met with no serious resistance until they were in sight of Kaifeng 
(Pa U), the capital of the province. In this connection it must be 
observed that in 1853 the mighty Yellow River, the " Sorrow of 
China," abandoned its southern course, which had become silted up, 
and returned to its historic channel by cutting its way to the sea 
through the northern part of Shantung province. The consequent 
overflowing of the river interfered with the operations of the Tai- 



pings to such an extent that they had to give up the hope of reducing 
Kaife ng^-- Having made a detour, the "Taipings laid siege to Huai- 
ching ($£ H), a city on the northern bank of the Yellow River to the 
Northwest of Kaifeng. The several battles that were fought under 
the walls of this city resulted adversely to the Taipings, who, now 
being considerably reduced in strength, were forced to seek safety 
in the hilly regions of Shansi. Before the close of the year, however, 
fresh reinforcements arrived in Shansi; and with these Lin Feng- 
hsiang entered the Metropolitan Province of Chihli by way of the 
Linming Pass (B£ *&). He continued his march as far north as 
Tsingchow (¥£ >M) within 200 miles of Peking; when the Emperor 
Hsien Feng, alarmed by the progress the Taipings had made, in- 
vited Prince Senkolintsin (ft J& ft $» and his hardy Mongol horse- 
men from the desert to come to the aid of the Government. Their 
arrival at Tsingchow made a complete change in the prospect of the 
campaign. With the aid of a Manchu army under General Shengpao 
(Wok), Senkolintsin, by a series of battles, forced Lin Feng-hsiang 
to retreat, made him prisoner on the southern border of Chihli in 
1855, and drove a fresh army of reinforcements out of Shantung. 
Of the two armies sent against Peking, only a small portion ever 
returned to Nanking. In view of its net results, the expedition was, 
of course, a pronounced failure. Nevertheless it had accomplished a 



512 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

marvelous feat in having marched through four provinces full of 
Imperial troops in less than six months. The expedition was the 
Erst and last attempt of the Taipings to capture Peking. 

Further Insurgent Successes in the Yangtze Valley. — 
During the whole of the time when their army was pushing its 
way through North China, the Taipings were making every effort 
to strengthen their base at Nanking. In front of that city was 
encamped the army of General Hsiang Yung (fa H), which had 
followed them from Yungan, and was now known as the " Great 
Camp of Kiangnan" (fr lM ^ #) ; while on the northern bank of 
the river, there had been collected a Manchu army of considerable 
strength, known as. the "Great Camp of Kiangpei" (?X 4b ;*: #) . 
These two armies had to be kept at bay ; and the city of Nanking 
itself had to be kept in a position to stand a long siege. So long 
as their further advance toward the east was temporarily checked, 
the Taipings had only the country to the west of Nanking to 
draw upon for both men and supplies. Accordingly they sent 
out various detachments into the provinces of Kiangsi, Anhui, 
Hupeh and Hunan , that carried carnage and destruction wherever 
they went. Unless it was absolutely necessary for military pur- 
poses, they never burdened themselves with holding cities after 
having deprived them of their portable wealth. Between the 
rebels and the government troops the city of Wuchang was cap- 
tured and recaptured as many as six times during the years 1853- 
1856. When driven out of one place, the Taipings generally ap- 
peared in another in increased numbers and with renewed vigor. 
With the exception of the Volunteer Army of Hunan, of which we 
shall speak again presently, no government force would or could 
oppose them. Whenever an Imperial commander found a city 
abandoned by the Taipings he would enter it and then make the 
whole affair appear a most creditable feat before his masters at 
Peking. 

The Rise of Ts'eng Kuo-fan.— When the rebels were 
sweeping down the Hsiang (M it), Ts'eng Kuo-fan (^ M H), their 
future conqueror, was in his home in Hsiang Hsiang (ftUJIB), 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



513 



having retired from his official position in Peking on account of 
the death of his mother. In compliance with the urgent appeals 
from his friend and sovereign, the Emperor Hsien Feng, he 
organized a little force of militia and saved the city of Changsha 
(^ &>). Although he had had no military training or experience, 
he was a man of exceptional ability and unquestionable integrity, 
and he set the example of loyalty at a time when treason seemed 

f to be the order of the day. The 

handful of men serving under 
his standard formed the nucleus 
of the Volunteer Army of Hunan, 
which, for fifty years afterwards, 
constituted the stronger part of 
China's soldiery, throwing both, 
the "Eight Banners" and the 
' ' Green Camp' ' into the back- 
ground . The largest unit of this 
army was a camp of 500. " The 
Hunan Braves," as the volunteers 
were commonly called, used no 
guns until a comparatively recent 
ts'eng kuo-fan date. 

Knowing that he could not punish the rebels without a 
fleet, Ts'eng Kuo-fan went to Heugchow (M ifl'l) in 1853 to build 
a fleet of wooden junks, which, manned exclusively by the Hunan 
Braves, did good service on the Yangtze. In April 1854, he was 
ready to emerge from his native province, with a force numbering 
about 12,000 men, and a fleet of war junks, to measure strength 
with the Taipings. The first general battle was fought at Hsiang 
Tan (MW-), and resulted in a victory for the Hunan Braves. 
During the next two or three years, Ts'eng Kuo-fan and his men 
were employed largely in Hupeh and Kiangsi provinces, and his 
record was a series of victories and defeats. In September 1855, 
he gained important victories near Kiukiang, and in October, in 




514 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

eastern Hupeli. In 1855, the Volunteer Army suffered a great 
loss in the death of General Tachipu (Jg ^ jfc) at Kiukiang; and 
in 1856 another one of their best officers, L,o Tse-nan (Hvf.ifj), 
was killed at Wuchang. 

Death of General Hsiang Yung.— In 1855, the Taipings 
made a bold sortie and attacked the Great Camp of Kiangnan, 
which had been considerably reduced in strength by the many 
detachments sent away by General Hsiang Yung to protect his 
rear. The General consequently found it advisable to order a 
retreat. But his retreat was turned into a rout, and the Command- 
er-in-Chief was so broken-hearted that he killed himself at Tan 
Yang WI&). After his death, there was no Imperial army in 
the vicinity of Nanking, until General Ho Ch'un, his successor, 
had time to bring up a fresh army from Anhui. In 1858 this 
army came and with the remnant of the "Great Camp of 
Kiangnan" laid siege to Nanking. 

Dissensions and Plots Among the Taipings.— Of all the 
early Princes of the Taipings, Yang Hsiu-ch'ing <M 5t $f), the 
Eastern Prince ()|C 3E) , was the only skilful strategist and able 
administrator. He was, in fact, the soul of the whole revolutionary 
movement. Hung Hsiu-chuan, the " Heavenly King," after his 
arrival at Nanking, was no longer a religious zealot. He had a 
court as well as a harem, which contained as many as eighty- 
eight wives and concubines. With these women he spent most of 
his time and often would see none of his officers for months. In 
due time, all power had fallen into the hands of Y'aug, and he 
became a menace even to the " Heavenly King " himself. During 
the brief time when Nanking was freed from investment, all sorts 
of intrigues were rampant among the Taipings. As a conse- 
quence, Yang, the Eastern Prince, his family and adherents, 
to the number of 20,000, were murdered, or massacred, by Wei 
Ch'ang-hui ($ ^ M), the Northern Prince. The family of Shin 
Ta-k'ai (Km H3), the Assistant Prince (Si), shared the same 
fate because of his sympathy with Yang. Shih, however, escaped 
by letting himself down from the city wall under cover of night ; 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



515 



and never had anything more to do with the Taipings. He led an 
independent movement in Szechnan ; but was made prisoner in 
1863, and subsequently put to death. When disorder was at its 
height in Nanking, the " Heavenly King" had to arouse himself, 
temporarily at least, from his life of pleasure, and order the 
execution of the Northern Prince and his family. Thus was Hung 
Hsiu-chiian deprived of the services of the early Princes. Fung 
Yiin-shan (?,§ M \h) and Hsiao Chao-kuei ( : M $8 M) , the Southern 
and Western Princes, respectively, had both been slain during 
their flight frcm Yungan. For a time the Taipiug movement 

seemed to have lost its head. Wu- 
chang was taken from the Taipings 
permanently in December 1856. It 
was captured by the Hunan Braves 
under Hu Iyin-i (iHcl), Governor 
of Hupeh, and himself a native of 
Hunan. Henceforth it became the 
base of the Hunan Volunteer Army. 
In December 1857, Chinkiang was 
also taken from the Taipings; and, 
by the autumn of 1858, they had 
Hu I < IN - 1 lost most of their possessions in the 

Yangtze Valley, excepting the two strongholds of Anking and 
Nanking and the strip of land between them. Hadjijiojt-beeii, 
for the War with the Allies (French and English), the whole 
revolution ary movement might have been brought to an immediate 
termii 



The Inspectorate General of Customs and the Likin 
System.— In 1853, the city of Shanghai was in the hands of 
the " Small Sword-Society 1 ' (<h JJ *) , an offspring of the "Triad 
Society" (H §& •§•) . As a consequence ; the native custom establish- 
ment ceased to operate ; no duty was collected on cargo, and 
vessels were not properly cleared. To remedy this condition of 
affairs, an arrangement was effected in 1854 between Taotai Wu 
of Shanghai and the three treaty consuls of Great Britain, France 




516 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

and the United States of America. A customs board of three 
members, one to be appointed by each of the consuls, was created 
with full power to perform all such duties as properly belonged to 
the native custom house. After a short time, the Board of Three 
was merged into one Inspector-General authorized to supervise 
the working of the several custom houses in South China, Mr. 
H. N. Lay being the first incumbent. Thus out of the Taiping 
Rebellion there sprang up the beginning of an institution which 
to-day lights and patrols the coast of China, collects her revenue, 
and controls her postal service. 

The likin system, a sort of internal transit charge, also owes 
its birth to the Taiping Rebellion. At the outset it was a war 
measure, devised to support the army of Ts'eng Kuo-fan and others 
engaged in suppressing the Taipings, and collected a thousandth 
part on all sales. But as there are different rates at different 
places many abuses have crept into the system. The likin to-day 
is a burden on trade, and, in spite of the efforts of Chinese and 
foreigners, it has not yet been abolished. It means an income 
to the Government as well as to those who have anything to do 
with its collection, and, for this reason, a temporary measure 
seems to have come to stay. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



517 



CHAPTER LV 

THE SECOND FOREIGN WAR 

Anti-Foreign Feeling at Canton.— In four of the five ports 
opened by the Treaty of Nanking, comparatively little trouble was 
met with by foreigners. At Shanghai, Ningpo, Foochow and Amoy 
large "concessions," or "settlements/' sprang up, trade flourished, 
and foreigners, to a certain extent, were permitted to have access to 
the native authorities and their y aniens. But the case of Canton, 
then the southernmost port, was different. Foreign residence at 
Canton was restricted to an area of about 21 acres,' as against 470 
acres at Shanghai. While the Shanghai " concession " was large 
enough to meet the needs of the foreign population, it was not so at 




Custom House, Shanghai 

Canton, which, at that time, had three times as many foreigners as 
the former place. Many times, the foreigners attempted to extend 
their small concession, but the Cantonese would not have it. Nor 
would they allow the foreigner to enter their walled city. They 
were resolved to resist the foreign demand by force, if necessary; 



518 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

and, as a consequence, anti-foreign placards were freely posted 
throughout the city, the enlistment and drilling of the militia went 
on quietly, and insults to foreigners became of frequent occurrence. 
Ch'i-ying, the Imperial High Commissioner, founel himself utterly 
powerless to cope with the situation. He knew that under the Trea- 
ties, the foreigner was entitled to enter the city; but he was afraid 
to say so in the face of the popular feeling. In a dispatch addressed 
to Sir John Davis, Governor of Hongkong, — and in those early days 
also British Minister and Superintendent of Trade, — he said: "Two 
years from this date (April 6, 1847) British officers and people 
shall have free entrance into the city." The governor accepted the 
promise in good faith, little knowing that it was a promise Ch'i-ying 
never intended to keep. 

Ch'i-ying Succeeded by Hsu Kuang-chin.— At his own 

request, Ch'i-ying was soon relieved of his post at Canton, and was 
succeeded by Hsu Kuang-chin (ffej^j^), a man who was as anti- 
foreign as the former was pro-foreign. Hsti deliberately broke the 
promises of his predecessor when the time came for the British 
officers and people to have free entrance into Canton, and permitted 
nothing of the kind to take place. The British Government at the 
time was not ready for war. On April 9, 1849, Sir G. Bonham 
(;£$&), Governor of Hongkong, wrote: "The question at issue rests 
where it was, but it must remain in abeyance." That foreigners 
were barred from Canton in spite of Ch'i-ying's promise was very 
pleasing to the Court at Peking; and by an edict of May 7, 1849, 
Hsu was rewarded with the fourth order of the Chinese nobility 
(^H), and with the privilege of wearing the Double-eyed Peacock 
Feather (gflftftffl); while Yeh Ming-ch'en (H £ M), Governor of 
Canton, was given the fifth order of nobility (!& f|), and the privilege 
of wearing the Single-eyed Peacock Feather. The readiness with 
which these unwarranted high honors were bestowed showed that the 
Emperor Hsien Feng did not expect his ministers to carry out 
treaty obligations ; but deliberately encouraged them to become anti- 
foreign in dealing with other nations. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 519 

The Question of Treaty Revision. — Both the French and 
American treaties contained a provision to the effect that they would 
be open to revision after a period of twelve years. The treaties 
therefore would expire by limitation in 1854. Although the British 
had no such stipulation in their own treaty, they could claim the 
right to revision under the most-favored-nation clause. In other 
words, the several foreign governments were agreed that their 
relations with China needed alterations at many points, and were 
unanimous in insisting upon the revision of their treaties. The only 
channel through which they could approach the Chinese Government 
on the subject was the Imperial High Commissioner at Canton; and 
that important official was now Yeh Ming-ch'en. Bigoted and 
ignorant, he was either " too busy " with " military affairs" to grant 
an interview to foreigners, or could see no need to revise the 
treaties. No eloquence, or threat, could convince him of the obli- 
gation China had contracted. On several occasions the foreign rep- 
resentatives proceeded to Shanghai w T iih a view to communicating 
with the Central Government through the Viceroy of the Liang 
Kiang; but in this they never succeeded. Yeh was the only man 
under the Imperial Government who was permitted to have anything 
to do with foreigners, and to him they were invariably referred. 
During all this time, the British Government did not drop the 
question of the entry into Canton; but her Consul, H. S. Parkes 
f E 3t H[), met with no more success than his predecessors. 

The Lorcha Arrow. — For some time piracy had once more 
been rife on the estuaries of Canton. To avoid capture by the pi- 
rates, many Chinese vessels had availed themselves of certain laws 
of Hongkong which permitted their registration and use of the 
English flag. One of these was the Lorcha Arrow, the property of 
a Chinese merchant of Hongkong. While lying off the city of 
Canton, a number of Chinese officers and men boarded her for the 
purpose of searching for a certain notorious pirate. They also 
hauled down the English flag and carried away the entire crew of 
twelve men (Oct. 8, 1856). When the facts were made known to 
the British Consulate, Air. Parkes demanded the return of the crew 



520 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

and the firing of a national salute of twenty-one guns as an apol- 
ogy for the insult done to the English Hag. After much delay and 
correspondence, the men were returned; but no apology was offered. 
The Consul, therefore, declined to receive the crew; and the case 
passed into the hands of the British naval authorities. 

Hostilities at Canton. — During the closing days of the year 
1856 (Oct. 27-Dec. 29), the English seized the forts guarding the 
approaches to Canton and frequently bombarded the city itself. 
Enraged but helpless, the Cantonese retaliated by setting fire to 
the defenceless factories and reducing them all to a heap of smoking 
ruins (Dec. 14). The hostilities were strictly local in character, and 
the relations between foreigners and Chinese at the other ports 
remained friendly and practically unchanged. 

England and France Become Allies.— The new situation 
created by the Arrow incident was the subject of Parliamentary de- 
bates in England. The English Government, or cabinet, was upheld 
in the House of Lords, but was defeated in the House of Commons. 
The Premier, Lord Palmerston, then dissolved the Parliament and 
appealed to the country. In forty days, he was returned with a 
large majority. War was declared, and invitations were addressed 
to America, Russia and France asking them to join England in the 
coming struggle. Inasmuch as America and Russia were both 
anxious to open up China, they did not see their way clear to declare 
war upon her. But as- France had been unable to secure any 
satisfaction from China for the murder of a French missionary* at 
Silin (ffl $fc), Kuangsi, she consented to become the ally of England. 
Lord Elgin (U M ±) and Baron Gros (?1 HI) were then appointed 
Plenipotentiaries for England and France respectively ; and, in the 
hands of these two men, the conduct of the war rested. 

Canton Captured and Yeh Ming-ch'en Made Prisoner — 
The Indian Mutiny having necessitated the diversion of some of 
the forces destined for China, the allies were not ready to begin 
operations at Canton until December 1857. Fresh demands in 



* Pere Chapdelaine. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 521 

the name of the Plenipotentiaries and covering the several points at 
issue were now addressed to the Imperial High Commissioner. 
Yeh Ming-ch'en was too haughty to grant these demands, but he 
was unprepared for the war. It is stated that he had consulted an 
oracle which told him that all the trouble would be over by the 30th 
of December. His faith in the oracle was so great that he refused to 
do anything to put the city of Canton in a state of defense. He 
was several times asked by his colleagues to take precautions. His 
answer on all these occasions was always the same : " There will 
be no trouble after the 30th of Dec." But the trouble came. At 

6 a.m. December 28th, 1857, the allied fleet bombarded Canton. At 

7 o'clock an attacking party, consisting of about 6,000 English and 
French marines and sailors, landed. The next day, December 29th, 
the allies were in complete possession of Canton, and had had only 
fifteen killed and 113 wounded. The only attempt to save the city was 
made by Lieutenant Teng An-pang (-Tl&fft3c^). The Tartar-General, 
Muktahna (H ^ W. fcft), commanding the Manchu garrison was the 
first to hoist the white flag. Thus in a sense the trouble was all 
over before December 30th ; but the foreigners had taken Canton. 
On Jan. 14, 1858, Yeh Ming-ch'en, whose folly had brought this war 
upon China, was discovered and sent on board the H. M. S. In- 
flexible. Later on he was removed to Calcutta, where he died an 
exile the following year. For the next three years, Canton remained 
under the government of a joint commission composed of three 
foreigners. 

Renewed Attempts at Treaty Revision.— With Canton in 
their hands, the allies again sought to open communications with 
the Peking Government respecting the revision of treaties. In this 
peaceful attempt to secure better relations with China, Lord Elgin 
and Baron Gros were joined by Mr. Reed, Commissioner of the 
United States of America, and Count Putiatin, the Russian Envoy, 
and all of them proceeded to Shanghai. Their simultaneous notes, 
identical in import and all addressed to Yii Ch'eng (f£ 1$), Senior 
Grand Secretary, were forwarded to Peking by Viceroy Ho Kuei- 
ch'ing (1SJ &$j§), of Liang Kiang, who was then at Changchow, 



522 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

owing to the occupation of Nanking by the Taipings. The replies 
from Peking returned through the same channel and told the English, 
French and American envoys to apply to the Viceroy at Canton for 
what they wanted. As the Russians had never had a share of the 
maritime trade at Canton, their minister was told to apply to the 
Governor of Heilungkiang. The four envoys would not do what 
they were told ; but proceeded further north, two representing bel- 
ligerents, and two neutrals. At Taku, situated at the mouth of 
the Peiho, they were met by three commissioners, including T'an 
T'ing-hsiang (M @ M), Viceroy of Chihli. None of these commis- 
sioners was clothed with full powers, and for this reason both Lord 
Elgin and Baron Gros refused to have anything to do with them. 
Negotiations were, however, opened with the American and Russian 
envoys. The allies were of course in no wise bound by the action 
of the latter; and consequently hostilities were renewed by the 
taking of the forts at Taku. With these forts in their possession, 
they forced their way up the Peiho to Tientsin. There the allies 
met new commissioners who were able to produce the necessary 
credentials. These were Grand Secretary Kueiliang (tfe H) and 
President Huashana (# W W\), with whom negotiations were opened. 

The British Treaty of Tientsin. — The negotiations en the 
part of Great Britain were, for the most part, stormy; and were 
carried on by Mr. Bruce, the Secretary, and Messrs. Lay and Wade, 
the Interpreters to Lord Elgin's Embassy. "Mr. Lay, the Senior 
Interpreter, more particularly had a temper and did not hesitate to 
give free play to his natural disposition in the presence of the 
Chinese Commissioners !" We have further the words of Lord Elgin, 
as to the mode of the negotiations. " We went on fighting and 
bullying, and getting the poor commissioners to concede one point 

after another Though I have been forced to act most brutally, I 

am China's friend in all this." The above quotations show how 
helpless the two Chinese commissioners were at Tientsin. The 
treaty, commonly known as the English Treaty of Tientsin, was 
signed on June 26, 1858. It consisted of 56 articles, of which 
the following were the more important ones : 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 523 

1. Opening of more seaports in the interior of China to foreign 
trade (three ports on the Yangtze between Hankow and the Sea to 
be thrown open, after the regicn should have been cleared of the 
Tai pings). 

2. Foreign residence at Peking. 

3. Toleration of Christianity. 

4. Payment by China of a war indemnity of Tls. 4,000,000. 

The Customs Tariff.— The question of the Customs Tariff 
was left open; but was taken up and settled at Shanghai in the 
following November. When this arrangement was made part of 
the treaty, China Avas deprived of her free will in the matter of 
import and export duties ; and from that day to this she has not been 
able to adopt any measure looking to the improvement of her customs 
revenue without the consent of foreign governments. While the 
other governments made separate treaties with China, the work of 
revising the tariff was left largely to the English, because their trade 
was the largest. Count Putiatin, having little concern with the 
marine trade, had returned to Russia; and Mr. Reed and Baron 
Gros agreed with Lord Elgin's schedule of the new tariff. After the 
revision of the tariff, Lord Elgin made a trip to the Yangtze ports, 
most of which were then held by the Taipings, and then returned to 
England. 

The French and Other Treaties.— On June 27, 1858, 
Baron Gros signed the French treaty of 42 articles. The indem- 
nity provided was less by one half than that of the Br itish treaty; 
but otherwise the two documents were very much the same in 
general import. The Russian treaty of 12 articles, signed on 
June 13th, and the American treaty of 30 articles, signed on June 
18th, called for no indemnity; but by the most-favored-nation 
clause, they were interlocked with those of the allies. 

The Russian Treaty of Aigun— Fifteen days prior to the 
signing of the Russian Treaty of Tientsin, a far more important 
international instrument was signed by Prince Yishan (^ llj) and 
the Russian Governor-General of Eastern Siberia. By this treaty 



524 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

China surrendered to Russia all the territory on the north bank 
of the Amur, which was the land the Treaty of Nerchinsk 
had given to her, and agreed to leave for future settlement the 
region beyond the Ussuri. The Treaty of Aigun, as it is com- 
monly called, therefore marked the beginning of Russian en- 
croachment upon Manchuria. 

Death of Ch'i-ying. — While the peace negotiations were still 
pending, Ch'i-ying, who had been deprived of all his honors 
and offices soon after the accession of Hsien Feng, appeared at 
Tientsin. He sought an interview with Lord Elgin on the strength 
of his appointment as an associate Commissioner, but the English 
envoy refused to treat with him. Feeling that his chance of 
usefulness was rather small, he returned to Peking on his own 
authority. For this he was sentenced to death; and thus was 
finally forsaken by his government, as well as by foreigners 
whom he had tried hard to please during his regime at Nanking 
and Canton. 

Exchange of Ratifications ; Repulse of the Allies at 
Taku.* — The several treaties of Tientsin all provided that the 
exchange of ratifications should take place within one year. 
With the exception of the American treaty, Peking was named 
in all of them as the place of exchange. When the time arrived, 
General Ignatieff, the Russian Minister, went to Peking by way 
of Kiakhta and effected the exchange without trouble. Mr. 
Ward, the representative of the U.S.A., after an unsuccessful 
visit to Peking, consented to attend to the matter at Pehtang, as 
his treaty did not bind him to any particular place. Mr. Bruce 
and M. de Bourborlon, the British and French Ministers, re- 
spectively, could of course accept no place other than Peking. 
Nor would they consent to go to Peking by any other route than 
by Taku. As they could not come to an agreement with the 



* According to the usage with civilized nations treaties must be approved 
or ratified by the sovereigns, of the contracting nations, and the copies bearing 
their signatures or seals, exchanged. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



525 



Chinese, the allied fleet of thirteen gunboats forced their way 
through the month of the Peiho, knowing nothing of the fortifica- 
tions that had been recently erected at Takn under the directions 
of Prince Sengalintsin, of the Kortsin Mongols {ffl fg JfoiEff f& W 
tb). In the engagement that ensued six of the gunboats were 
rendered incapable of action, 4 of them being sunk, 25 sailors 
and 64 marines were killed, and 93 sailors and 252 marines were 
wounded. Among the severely wounded was Admiral Hope of 
the British Fleet. The naval authorities having declared their 
inability "to remove the obstacles opposed to your (minister's) 
entry at the mouth of the Peiho," nothing remained for the 
English and French envoys but to return to Shanghai. 

Occupation of Peking. — In 1860, Lord Elgin and Baron Gros 
returned to China as Ambassadors. They were supported in 
their journey to Peking by an allied army of about 18,000 men, 
of which 7,000 were French. The allied forces landed at Pehtang 
(August 2, 1860), because the place was practically undefended. 
Ten days later an engagement took place at Sinho when the 
Chinese were defeated. The flower of the Mongolian horsemen, 




Treaty Making, Peking 



526 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

the pride of Prince Sengalintsin, was annihilated. On Aug. 21st, 
the Taku forts, impregnable from the front, were attacked in the 
rear and taken. Four days later, the city of Tientsin was also in 
the hands of the allies. Prince Sengalintsin then prepared an 
ambuscade at Tungchow, but it was a failure. He had to 
content himself with the arrest of Mr. Parkes and party, who 
had come to Tungchow under a flag of truce to discuss terms of 
an armistice with Prince I (t& Hi). The foreign prisoners were 
interrogated, tortured and carried to Peking, where they were 
locked up until October 22, several of them having meanwhile 
died in the prison. 

After the battles of Changchiawan (Wi.W.W) and Palichiao 
(All) (Sept. 18-Sept. 21), in both of which the allies were 
victorious, there was nothing to prevent their advance upon 
Peking. On October 13th, Peking, for the first time, was in the 
hands of European soldiers. Hsien Feng and his court had fled 
to Jehol. By Lord Elgin's orders the Emperor's favorite resort, 
the Yiian Ming Yiiaii* (II ijJJ @), was burned to the ground, the 
palace having been previously mercilessly plundered by the French 
troops. Whatever may have been the excuse for these barbarous 
acts, history will surely view them in the light of vandalism. 

Treaties of Peking (1860). — In the absence of the Imperial 
Court, the responsibility of concluding the final peace rested on 
Prince Kung (^ Hi), the Emperor's younger brother. The net 
result of his efforts was the British Treaty of Oct. 24th, and the 
French Treaty of Oct. 25th; both of which were signed in the 
Hall of the Board of Rites. The ratifications of the Tientsin 
Treaties were exchanged at the same time that the new treaties 
were signed. The main points in the two new treaties were 
identical. The Emperor of China expressed his regrets for the 
" misunderstanding" at Taku; the war indemnity was increased 



*Thepaiace had been constructed under the supervision of the Jesuits and 
no little foreign architecture was employed. - 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



527 




Prince Kung 



to Tls. 8,000,000 for each of the allies; Chusan, Tientsin, Taku, 
Chef oo, and Canton, then held by the allies, were to beevacuated 
after a certain length of time ; and Tientsin was to be added to 
the list of open ports. By the British treaty, China ceded to the 
British Crown in perpetuity the tongue of land known as 
Kowloon Point, projecting into and dominating the Hongkong 
harbour. The French treaty, which provided for no cession of 
territory, had a clause in the Chinese text, said to have been 
surreptitiously inserted, giving the Catholic missionaries a right 
to own property in the interior of China. 

Russian Negotiations in Peking. — Early in 1860 General 
Iguatieff had been directed to demand from China the cession of 
the Trans-Ussuri Territory. Russia offered to supply China with 
cannon and small arms which were needed in the suppression 



528 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of the Taiping Rebellion ; and hinted that, in case of her refusal, 
she would send a Russian fleet to Pehtang. During the peace 
negotiations at Peking, the Russian minister offered his good 
offices as a sort of mediator, and in the. hour of embarrassment 
they were gladly accepted by Prince Kung. When peace was 
restored General Ignatieff came with a claim for compensation, 
and obtained the signature, which had been previously withheld, 
to the cession of the desired territory. The Trans-Ussuri Territory 
is to-day the Russian province of Primorsk. Thus out of the war 
with the allies, Russia, always professing to be a friend of the 
Manchus, had secured a much larger slice of territory than 
England. 

Legalization of the Opium Trade. — If China had proved 
herself utterly incapable of stopping the importation of opium, 
she had been under no obligation to admit it to the ruin of her 
people. This was no longer the case when the Rules of Trade, 
prepared at Shanghai in 1858, came into force. Under these 
regulations, opium was to be admitted at every port open to 
foreign trade, upon payment of an import duty of Tls. 30 per 
picul. This was less than the duty levied in London upon 
Chinese tea and silk. In other words, the trade in opium had 
become legalized. In 1840 the total consumption of opium in 
China was estimated at 15,619 chests. Twenty years later, the 
estimated consumption had reached 47,681 chests. The Ameri- 
cans alone can boast of a treaty (Art. 2, Treaty of Peking, 1880) , 
which contains a provision against the importation of this deadly 
poison. This stands as an everlasting monument to America's 
high sense of justice. 

The Tsungli Yamen. — In consequence of the Tientsin and 
Peking treaties a new department was created by an edict of Jan. 
19, 1861. This was the Tsungli Yamen, which was to deal with 
foreign affairs, since it was no longer possible to confine foreign 
intercourse to the port of Canton, or to any other port newly opened 
to trade. The Tsungli Yamen, however, was more than a foreign 
office. It was a most important body down to 1901, and second 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 529 

to none in rank except the Grand Council. It had supervision of 
the Customs revenue, of modern education, of the construction of 
arsenals and coast defences, of telegraph lines, and of such other 
things as did not properly pertain to the other Yamens. 

In organization, the Tsungli Yamen bore close resemblance 
to the Grand Council. It had no officials belonging to itself 
alone; but was formed by the admission of members from other 
departments of the government. In 1876 all members of the 
Grand Council were also members of this Yamen. Prince Kung 
was its first president, and he held that office until his fall from 
power in 1884. 



530 ' OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER LVI 

THE SECOND STAGE OE THE TAIPING REBELLION 

New Taiping Leaders. — As will be remembered, the fortunes 
of the Taipings were at a low ebb in 1857. But China's war 
with the allies, the misfortune of Hsien Feng, was T'ien Wang's 
opportunity, as it weakened the Government's position to no small 
extent. Moreover there had arisen among the Taiping's two new 
leaders, who, for a time at least, were able to defeat the Imperial 
troops in all quarters. They were Li Hsiu-clVeng (^ % j&) and Ch'en 
Yii-ch'eng ($C3£#g), or the Prince of Chung (J& 3E) and Prince of 
Ying (3£ 3£) respectively, as they were better known by their princely 
titles. It was largely due to their energy and devotion to the Taiping 
cause that the rebellion was granted a new lease of life after 1857. 

The Disposition of the Imperial Forces (1858). — The 
Imperial troops engaged to the suppression of the rebellion in 1858 
were : — 

1. The Great Army of Kiangnan (tt ii ^c ^) under the com- 
mand of Generals Ho Ch'un (5fn #) and Chang Kuo-liang (SgagS), 
engaged in investing the city of Nanking. 

2. The Great Army of Kiangpei (ft 4fc ;fc ^) under the com- 
mand of General Tehsinga (& H ffi) with headquarters at Yangchow, 
charged with the work of preventing the Taipings from coming 
north. 

3. The forces of Generals Pao Ch'ao (f® S), Tuhsinga (fp H PrJ) 
and Tolunga (#11^), engaged in investing Anking ; and those of 
General Li Hsu-ping ($ g£ ff), engaged in operations in North Anhui. 

4. The army of Ts'eng Kuo-fan with headquarters in Kiangsi, 
busy with the desultory detachments of the Taipings on the Chekiang 
and Fukien border. 

Battle of San Ho and Death of Li Hsti-ping— In the 
second half of 1858, Prince Ying began to show his energy and skill. 
In the brief period of three months he took, or retook, Luchow (H jNI), 
the second city in importance in Anhui, and a number of towns on 
the Hupeh border, and carried plundering expeditions as far east as 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 531 

the city of Yangchow. But the greatest of his achievements was the 
severe blow he dealt to the Imperial cause at San Ho (HM). This 
town, about 50 li from Luchow, was a sort of military depot of the 
Taipings ; and, to make it well-nigh impregnable, had a line of earth- 
works built around it. Governor Li Hsu-ping had evidently under- 
estimated the strength of the enemy, or he would not have ventured 
so far north with Anking still in their possession. At any rate, he 
appeared before San Ho with his army in November. His men had 
been fatigued by the capture of the cities of T'ai Hu (;fc 89), Ch'ien 
Shan Of Oi), Tung Ch'eng (ffi tf) and Shu Ch'eng («F*fi); and had 
been greatly reduced in numbers by leaving a garrison in each of 
these places. His army had not had time to reduce all the earthworks 
about San Ho before there appeared an overwhelming .force led by 
Prince Ying in person. Li Hsu-ping soon found himself completely 
surrounded, and before any succor could reach him, either from 
Hupeh, or from the army left before the walls of Anking, the little 
army of 6,000 men and its commander were ruthlessly cut down to 
the last man. Thus perished the flower of the Hunanese Volunteer 
Army and one of the best and most promising officers it ever had. 
The result was most disastrous to the Imperialists. The siege of 
Anking was voluntarily raised and the troops reluctantly retraced 
their steps into Hupeh. It was not until 1860 that the Imperial 
troops, after months of hard fighting in Kiangsi and South Anhui, 
once more laid siege to the stronghold of Anking. 

The Taipings Break out of Nanking. — We must now turn 
our attention to Nanking, the capital of the Taipings. In the year 
1858, the siege was pressed with unusual vigor by Generals Ho 
Ch'un and Chang Kuo-liang. The outposts of the Taipings about 
the city had one by one been carried by the Imperial troops and 
their plunder was about exhausted. Just at that time it fell to the 
lot of Prince Chung to save Nanking, as it had fallen to Prince 
Ying in the case of Anking. These were both remarkable men. 
Always following the line of least resistance, Prince Chung had on 
more than one occasion succeeded in eluding the Imperial command- 
ers who tried to corner him. At one time, when he was commonly 



532 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

supposed to be marching to the rescue of Anking, he suddenly 
appeared with a large force before Hangchow, which, save that 
portion occupied by the Manchu town, he easily captured. This 
occurred in March 1860. Hangchow, however, was not his real 
object. As soon as he heard of the approach of a large body of 
men, which General Ho Ch'un had sent to relieve the Manchu 
town, he voluntarily raised the siege and by a forced march returned 
to Nanking. As he had expected, he found on his arrival that the 
Imperial army before Nanking was much reduced by the number of 
men it had sent away. The time had arrived for the Taipings to 
free themselves. Accordingly between April 27 and May 3, they, 
under the directions of Prince Chung, delivered a well concerted 
attack on all the earthworks, behind which the Imperial troops had 
entrenched themselves, and drove them out with the loss of all their 
guns, stores and equipment. Overcome by the fearful slaughter, 
both Generals Ho Ch'un and Chang Kuo-liang committed suicide, 
the latter at Tanyang (^5-H), and the former at Changchow (^ W). 
These and a number of other cities which stood in the way of the 
Taipings now fell in rapid succession; and Soochow, the guber- 
natorial city of Kiangsu, was taken on June 3rd. 

Ho Kuei-ch'ing (M ^ ?f), Viceroy of Liangkiang, who had made 
Changchow the temperary seat of his government, fled in a most 
dastardly manner to Shanghai, leaving his junior colleague, Hsu 
Yu-jen (f&;fr3:), Governor of Kiangsi, to perish with the fall of 
Soochow. He w r as arrested for his cowardice and sent a prisoner 
to Peking, where he was decapitated in 1862. 

Having freed themselves from the Imperial Army at Nanking, 
the Taipings, in another year, had overrun the whole of South Kiang- 
su and also Chekiang province, a rich country hitherto unmolested. 
After seven years, the Taipings had at last reached the sea. They 
had also come into contact with men from whom they soon obtained 
better arms and better plans for maintaining their struggle with the 
Manchu Government. 

Ts'eng Kuo-fan's appointment as Viceroy of Liangkiang 
and Imperial High Commissioner. — It now became necessary 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 533 

for the Government to appoint successors to Ho Kuei-ch'ing and 
General Ho Ch'un; and the choice of the Emperor Hsien Feng at 
that critical moment fell upon Ts'eng Kuo-fan. No better choice 
could have been made. Ts'eng Kuo-fan, the father of the Hunanese 
Volunteer Army and the Yangtze, fleet, had long before established 
a name for himself. Time and again had he been defeated at the 
hands of the Taipings; but each defeat, instead of discouraging him, 
only served to stimulate him to renewed efforts. He was a man in 
whom the Hunan soldiers had full confidence. Inasmuch as the 
Government needed the support of these men, she could not afford 
to keep him in an unimportant position. Hence Ts'eng Kuo-fan 
became at once the Viceroy of Liangkiang and Imperial High 
Commissioner. Hitherto his military achievements, as a rule, had 
been dependent upon the goodwill of the viceroy or governor in 
whose territory he happened to be fighting. The reason for this is 
not far to seek. Under the official system of the Ta Ch'ing Empire, 
as it existed in the days of the rebellion, the responsibility for 
feeding, clothing, and providing for the soldiers, rested upon the 
Viceroys and Governors of the provinces ; and, unless an Imperial 
High Commissioner was also a viceroy, or governor, he was without 
direct authority to provide for the support of his own men. The 
new appointment of Ts'eng Kuo-fan was exactly what he wanted. 

Ts'eng Kuo-fan's Plan. — The new Viceroy was in no hurry 
to make a demonstration of force before Nanking. He told his 
Emperor that the forces, then detained before Anking, should, under 
no circumstance, be sent for service elsewhere. He must have 
Anking as his base and the complete control of the Yangtze before 
he could take Nanking. The Emperor endorsed his views. While 
waiting for the arrival of additional troops from Hunan and Hupeh, 
Ts'eng Kuo-fan now made Ch'i Men (if PI), a small town south of 
Anking, his temporary headquarters, and entrusted the work of 
reducing Anking to his brother, Ts'eng Kuo-ch'uan (WHS:). 

Fall of Anking. — With no Imperial army at Nanking to 
contend with, and with the best part of Kiangsu and Chekiang prov- 
inces in their possession, the new year found the situation of the 



534 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Taipings much improved. They at once hastened to Ch'i Men, 
where they hoped by keeping the Viceroy a prisoner in his own 
chosen position to cause his brother, Ts'eng Kuo-ch'uan, to raise the 
siege of Anking of his own accord. For two months (Feb. and 
March 1861), the Viceroy was actually cut off from communication 
and from his base of supplies ; but in their hope of saving Anking, 
the Taipings were disappointed. At a moment when destruction 
seemed certain, Generals Pao Ch'ao, Tso Tsung-tang (£ ^ ^) and 




Tso Tsung-tang 

Chang Ytin-lan (jjg il fill) brought up the much needed reinforce- 
ments. The country about Ch'i Men then became the scene of 
many a bloody battle with the result that the Imperialists succeeded 
in extricating their beloved Generalissimo from his perilous position. 
After this signal defeat of the Taipings, the city of Anking was 
doomed. It succumbed to the efforts of Ts'eng Kuo-ch'uan and his 
men on Sept. 5, 1861. Its fall was the turning point in the war. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



535 



During the next three years, Anking became the seat of the 
Viceregal government. It was to this city that the various armies 
operating in Anhui, Chekiang, Kiangsu, and Kiangsi looked for 
instructions ; and it was in this city, too, that Ts'eng Kuo-fan made 
and unmade viceroys and governors of the neighboring provinces. 




Imperial Palace at Jehol, in which the Emperor Hsien Feng died in 1861. 
(" Tramps in Dark Mongolia ") 

Death of the Emperor Hsien Feng: Appointment of the 
Empresses as Joint Regents.— Six days after the fall of Anking, 
death overtook the Emperor Hsien Feng at Jehol, whither he had 
fled with his court on the arrival of the English and French troops 
at Peking. His death left his throne to his only child, a boy of six 
years. For a couple of years all the power of the government had 
been in the hands of Su Shun (KM), an imperial clansman, and 
his power was especially to be dreaded at Jehol. Now, that his 
august sovereign was dead, his design was to preserve the boy- 
emperor and to make away in secret with his mother, the Empress 
Tz'u Hsi (^H), as well as the Empress Tz'u An (H 3£), the widow 
of Hsien Feng, Fortunately at this juncture, Prince Kung, who 
had come all the way from Peking to assure the Empresses of his 
sympathy, appeared upon the scene. At the interview granted to 
him at Jehol, a scheme to bring the court back to Peking was quietly 
agreed upon. This scheme worked most smoothly; and, on Nov. 1st, 
1861, the youthful monarch and the Empresses entered the capital 



536 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

in state. Once more in Peking and surrounded by loyal Princes and 
Ministers, their Majesties, the Empresses, asserted their authority. Su 
Shun, who had appointed himself Regent, was arrested and sent to 
the market place, while Prince I (1&) and Prince Cheng (ifc), or Tsai 
Yuan (WtM) and Tuan Hua Of§lp), as they had now been deprived 
of their titles, were ordered to commit suicide. For the first time 
in the history of the Manchus, the Empresses were appointed joint 
Regents. Inasmuch as Tz'u Hsi was the concubine of Hsien F6ng, 
she had to occupy a secondary place behind the screen. Never- 
theless she was the real power in the Government. By an edict 
issued in the name of the Regents, the designation of the Emperor's 
reign was changed from Ch'i Hsiang (fflt M) to T'ung Chih (1*1 fft). 
The former had been given by Su Shun and consequently was 
considered unlucky. 

For the part Prince Kung had played in bringing about the 
downfall of Su Shun, he was made Prince Councillor (!i$caE) and 
head of the Grand Council. His appointment was an innovation in 
the annals of that august body, for no prince of the blood had served 
in that capacity before his time. 

In the death of the Emperor Hsien Feng, Ts'eng Kuo-fan lost 
a personal friend. But the newly- formed Government had undi- 
minished confidence in him and clothed him with unprecedented 
power to deal with the situation in the South. 

Death of Prince Ying. — In May 1862, Luchow, which had 
been Prince Ying's home, was also lost to the Taipings, and he, 
rendered homeless, fled with the remnant of his followers to Shou- 
chow (m l M) to seek hospitality at the hands of his friend, Miao P'ei- 
lin (H JfU H) ; but this man proved to be the w T orst enemy he ever 
had. Finding Prince Ying under the influence of liquor one night, 
Miao P'ei-lin had him bound and carried a prisoner into the camp 
of a Manchu general at Yingchow (II WI), North Anhui. Later 
Prince Ying was in accordance with imperial orders put to death at 
Yen Tsin(2£#), Honan, by the cruel lingering process. In his 
death, the Taiping cause lost one of its stoutest supporters. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



537 



The Ever- Victorious Army. — Two months after the capture 
of Soochow, Prince Chung reached Shanghai. This city would 
have been captured by the Taipings had it not been defended by 
English and French troops. When the danger was over, it occurred 
to the Shanghai Taotai to enlist foreigners in the service of his 
government. Before long, a motley force of foreigners and Chinese 
was formed, to which was given the name of Ch'ang Sheng Chun, 
or the Ever- Victorious Army. Frederick G. Ward ( r ^M), an 
American adventurer, became its first commander. The force 
rendered valuable service in 1862 in both Kiangsu and Chekiang. 
After the death of General Ward, who was killed at Tzi Khe, the 




Colonel Gordon 



538 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



command of the force was given to Col. (then Major) Peter Gordon 
(^S) (April 1862). The force numbered less than 5,000 men, 
and consisted of five or six infantry regiments of 500 men each and 
a battalion of artillery. General Ward was buried at Sungkiang, 
where a shrine was built to his memory by order of the Imperial 
Government. 

The Volunteer Army of Anhui.— Upon the fall of Anking, 
the people of Kiangsu feelingly appealed to Ts'eng Kuo-fan for help; 
but the Generalissimo could spare neither officers nor men. That the 
fall of Anking had relieved a large army, was quite true; but 
this force had to follow the banks of the Yangtze and fight its way 
to Nanking. A new army, therefore, had to be raised ; and at that 
critical moment, Ts'eng Kuo-fan thought of Li Hung-chang (^ fc§ #), 




I,i Hung-chang 



who had lived in obscurity since 1853. Li, who was instructed to 
raise an army of volunteers in his native province on the model of 
the Hunan army, returned in March 1862 with a large body of 
Anhui men, ready to share the laurels with their Hunan brethren. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 539 

This became the nucleus of the Huai Chiin, or the Volunteer Army 
from the Huai Valley ; and was officered by men transferred from the 
Hunan army, one of whom was General Ch'eng Hsiieh-ch'i ($£ & ?£), 
a former Taiping Chief. With this force, Li Hung-chang sailed to 
Shanghai in April 1862, on board seven steamers specially chartered 
for that purpose. Almost immediately upon his arrival, he was made 
Governor of Kiangsu. 

Capture of Soochow. — Li Hung-chang first busied himself 
with the defence of Shanghai and vicinity. The Taipings made 
two more efforts in 1862 to take Shanghai and Sungkiang by 
assault. The Ever- Victorious Army took part in almost every 
engagement. After the taking of Changsu (&f&), Taitsang (&&), 
Fushan (« Ui) and K'unshan (MUl), Li Hung-chang was ready 
to attack Soochow. His plan as outlined in a memorial to the 
Throne was as follows: — One column was to march from K'un- 
shan due west to Soochow; a second, assisted by a flotilla, was 
to go from Changsu by way of Kiangyin and Wusih; while a 
third, also assisted by a flotilla, was to move northward by way of 
Wukiang, Pingwang, and Taihu. After the preliminary work of 
carrying the Taiping outworks, Soochow was completely invested 
and cut off from communication with the North by Nov. 19, 1863. 
The Taiping Princes, seeing their hopeless situation, murdered 
their chief, the Mu Wang (HiE), and made peace overtures to 
General Ch'eng. On December 6th, the surrender was complete 
and the Taiping Princes came out of the city by special appoint- 
ment to see Li Hung-chang, who caused them to be seized and 
ruthlessly put to death. That the surrender of Soochow was 
attended by this treachery, was most disgraceful; but the murder, 
according to General Ch'eng, was not a premeditated one. Since 
he had absolutely no faith in the Taiping Princes, he claimed to 
think that it was necessitated by the circumstances. 

Disbandment of the Ever-Victorious Army. — The sur- 
render of Soochow was followed by the capture of other cities in 
Kiangsu. After the fall of Ihing and Changchow, the Ever- 
Victorious Army was no longer needed and its career came to an 



540 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

end. Li Hung-chang, feeling deeply indebted to Gordon, made 
a very good report of him to the Peking Government. Among the 
honors bestowed on him was the privilege of wearing the Yellow 
Jacket, a distinction bestowed upon a European for the first time. 

The Lay-Osbourne Flotilla ; Sir Robert Hart and the 
Chinese Customs Service. — In 1863, a fleet of eight gunboats 
arrived from England under the command of Capt. Osbourne of 
the British Navy. They had been purchased by Mr. Lay, Inspector- 
General of Customs, for the Chinese Government, whose original 
intention was to employ them in operations against Nanking. 
Mr. Lay insisted that this fleet should be placed under the direct 
control of the Government, and should receive orders only 
through him ; but the Tsungli Yamen at Peking could not see its 
way to comply with a demand entirely devoid of reason. As a 
consequence, the fleet took no part in the operations against 
Nanking, and the ships were finally sold. 

After this affair, the Tsungli Yamen could not retain Mr. 
Lay in the Customs Service. He was accordingly dismissed and 
his place given to Mr. (afterwards Sir) Robert Hart, the man to 
whom is due the credit of organizing an efficient service for 
China. At the time of his appointment, the Inspector-General 
had only seven ports under his supervision and the relations 
between him and the Commissioners of Customs were not clearly 
denned. 

Tso Tsung-tang Becomes Governor of Chekiang.— About 
the same time that Li Hung-chang became Governor at Soochow, 
Tso Tsung-tang, another satellite and protege of Ts'eng Kuo-fan, 
began to appear on the official horizon. After serving under the 
great Chief first in the capacity of private secretary and then in 
that of assistant commissioner, he was now assigned the work of 
clearing the Chekiang province of the enemy, and soon became 
its Governor. Gradually but steadily he fought his way from 
the Kiangsi border into his own province ; and on March 30, 1864, 
Hangchow succumbed to his arms. Like Li Hung-chang, Tso 
Tsung-tang owed much of his success to foreigners, especially to 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 541 

the French who took a prominent part in the attacks upon Ning- 
po and other cities in North Chekiang. 

Fate of Hung Hsiu-chuan. — With the loss of Soochow, 
Hang'chow and the greater part of Kiangsn and Chekiang, the 
cause of T'ien Wang was doomed. The only man who could save 
the situation was Prince Chung; but he was not trusted by his 
King, who had long since resigned the reins of government in 
favour of his two half brothers, Hung Jen-fa ($t fcH) and Hung 
Jen-ta (gt £156). Prince Chung wanted his King to break out of 
Nanking, and lay the foundation of a kingdom in Szechuan, 
or Yunnan ; but he would not listen to such a suggestion. 
Nanking was T'ien Wang's "Kingdom of Heaven" ; and, according 
to him, it was nonsense to talk of dangers that were confronting 
such a kingdom. When approached by Prince Chung upon the 
subject of famine, all he would say was that his people should eat 
the "sweet dews." 

At last T'ien Wang's faith in his own divinity was shaken; 
and on June 30, 1864, he poisoned himself. His death left his 
son Hung Fu-t'ien (^ $* jg), to become T'ien Wang the Second. 
The remains of the first T'ien Wang were afterwards dug up by 
the Imperial troops, mutilated and burned. 

Fall of Nanking. — The "Kingdom of Heaven" survived 
its King and founder but a short time. On July 19th, the wall 
of Nanking was breached by the explosion of a mine, and the 
Imperial troops led by General Li Ch'en-tien (^ EL H) streamed 
into the city. But even then resistance did not cease, and street 
fighting continued throughout the whole day. When night came, 
Prince Chung, who was faithful to the cause of the Taipings to the 
last, with a thousand of the old Taipings, escorted Hung Fu-t'ien, 
T'ien Wang II, then a lad of sixteen, to a short distance beyond 
the city where they became separated. The Prince, having 
given his good pony to his youthful master, was soon overtaken 
and brought back to the city a prisoner. He wrote a full account 
of the Taiping Rebellion while in prison, and advised Ts'eng 
Kuo-fan to show more leniency to the Kuangsi men, lest they in 



542 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

despair might prolong the struggle indefinitely. Ts'eng Kuo-fan 
was inclined to spare his life, but one little incident sealed his 
fate. One day as he was before the Imperial Commissioner 
answering questions, two other princes of the Taipings were 
brought into the room. The very moment they saw Prince 
Chung, they fell upon their knees to present their greetings. A 
prisoner, who continued to exercise such an influence over his old 
associates, was certainly a source of danger to the imperial cause; 
and he was therefore condemned to die by a lingering death. 

More than seven thousand Kuangsi men were put to the 
sword in Nanking. The besieging army at the time of the 
capture of the city numbered 50,000 men, most of whom were 
soon disbanded. To reward them for their invaluable services, 
the Empresses made Ts'eng Kuo-fan a marquis, and his brother, 
Tseng Kuo-ch'iian, and Li Hung-chang, earls. 

Capture of Hung Fu-t'ien. — Hung Fu-t'ien on his departure 
from Nanking made good his escape into Huchow, the only city 
in Chekiang then in the possession of the Taipings. Upon the 
fall of that city, he fled into Kiangsi, and continued to lead a 
wandering life until he was discovered in the mountains near 
Luchi in September and summarily put to death. The credit for 
his capture was largely due to Tso Tsung-tang ; and he, too, was 
rewarded with an earldom. 

After the fall of Nanking, desultory fighting continued for 
some time in the provinces of Kiangsi, Fukien, Kuangtung, Hupeh 
and Shensi; but by February 1865 no more was heard of the Taiping 
Rebellion. 

The Manchus No Longer a Military Race. — Though the 
Alanchus had ever enjoyed the reputation of being a military race, 
their energy had largely disappeared by the time of the Taiping 
Rebellion. One Manchu general after another had been sent by the 
Emperor Hsien Feng against the Taipings ; but in every case it was to 
meet his Waterloo. Finally the Emperor appealed to Tse'ng Kuo-fan 
because he had satisfied himself that no Manchu was equal to the 
task. His tottering throne was saved in the end ; but it was saved 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 543 

by Chinese and not by Manchus. The Taiping war, for the most 
part, was a struggle between the peoples of the Two Kuang Prov- 
inces and those of the Two Hu Provinces. On the one side there 
were corruption and vice, on the other organization and system. It 
is not at all surprising that the former were made to acknowledge 
defeat at the hands of the latter. 

Causes of the Imperial Success. — The causes that led to the 
final triumph of the Imperial Government over the Taipings were 
undoubtedly many ; but only two require mention here. They were : — 

1. Absence of distinction between Chinese and Manchus. 
Ever since the beginning of the Manchu rule in China, it had been 
the custom of the Government to subordinate Chinese to Manchus. 
No Chinese before the time of Ts'eng Kuo-fan had ever wielded 
the power that was invested in him after the elevation of T'ung Chih 
to the throne. During the rebellion even Ts'eng Kuo-fan himself 
was alarmed, and time and again he asked the Government to send 
a prince in his stead ; but it was never done. In face of a great 
danger no distinction was made between Chinese and Manchus ; and 
the result was such as we have seen. 

2. Subordination of tradition and technicality to ability. It 
will be remembered that the Manchus made few alterations in the 
system of government when they came into China. They adopted 
the examination system of the Mings, a system which prevented 
honesty, ability and reform. As a rule no Chinese ever held re- 
sponsible positions either in Peking, or in the Provinces, until he was 
60 or 70 years old; and then his policy was to do nothing because 
he was unfit, both in body and mind, to do very much. The best he 
could do was to live according to tradition and follow precedents. 
Happily things were different in the early days of the reign of T'ung 
Chih. Tso Tsung-tang, a man who had taken the second literary 
degree, became Governor of Chekiang without any further for- 
mality; and Liu Yung (gij ^) was made Governor of Shensi when he 
did not possess the official rank which would otherwise have qualified 
him for the post. Li Hung-chang and Liu K'un-i (gij *$ — ) were made 
rulers of provinces when they were hardly thirty years of age. It 



544 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

was an age when tradition and technicality had to give place to 
ability. Ability can build up a strong government; but tradition 
and technicality always stand in the way of progress. 

Conclusion. — The Taiping Rebellion, which sapped the life 
of China for fifteen years, was a civil war that brought about no 
compensating influence for the wilful destruction of life and prop- 
erty. During its progress, more than 600 cities and towns were 
laid in ruins ; and trade, art, literature, and civilization all received 
a setback. It introduced no religious, political, or social reform 
in China. The smattering knowledge of Christianity that the early 
Taipings had, left no trace on their followers who did absolutely 
nothing towards the spread of this religion. Neither foreigners nor 
Chinese were sorry to see the whole movement stamped out in 
1865. 

Any man may unfurl the standard of rebellion ; but it takes 
brains to build a sound government. The Taipings had but them- 
selves to blame for their failure to overthrow the Manchus. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 545 



CHAPTER EYII 

THE PERIOD OF RESTORATION 

The Period. — The reign of T'ung Chili is commonly distin- 
guished as the Period of Restoration. During the thirteen years 
(1862-1875) which comprised this reign, one rebellion after another 
was put down ; but there was no foreign war to add to the worries 
of the Emperor, as had been the case with the two preceding rulers. 
The account of the Taiping Rebellion having been given elsewhere, 
it only remains for us to relate the events that took place after the 
taking of Nanking in the summer of 1864. 

Suppression of the Niehfei. — In May 1865, Peking was 
startled by the news of the death of Prince Sengalintsin, who was 
slain at the head of his Mongolian horsemen by the Niehfei (££|I). 
(This is a term applied to the mounted bandits, who had since 1853 
spread carnage in the North, or more particularly in the provinces of 
Shantung, Honan, North Anhui and South Chihli. The term, 
according to some authorities, refers to the peculiarly shaped torches 
the bandits used at night, as they set out on their marauding- 
expeditions.) Unlike the Taipings, the Neihfei had no higher aim 
than plunder; but having defeated one Imperial commander after 
another, they became a very real source of clanger to the Manchu 
Dynasty. They owed their impunity principally to their swiftness. 
They would never fight a pitched battle, but would keep on retreating 
before an Imperial army until the soldiers were worn out by fatigue. 
Then suddenly they would turn upon their pursuers and deal them a 
severe blow. Such was their plan in the case of Prince Sengalintsin. 
The Prince had fought the Niehfei from province to province 
ever since the close of the war with the allies, and was, at the time 
of his death, the Commander-in-Chief of ail the Manchu and 
Chinese forces in the three provinces of Shantung, Honan, and 
Chihli. 

The death of the Prince brought Ts'eng Kuo-fan into the North. 
He was told to undertake what the Mongolian Prince and his predeces- 
sors bad failed to do. As Ts'eng Kuo-fan had already grown tired 



546 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of his extraordinary power, he took with him, tor the most part, 
regiments of the Huai Chun, instead of men from his own country. 
For some time, owing principally to lack of cavalry, he was not able 
to assume the offensive against the Niehfei. It appeared to him 
that the only way he could hope to deal successfully with the 
situation was to keep large bodies of men at all strategic points so 
as to prevent the Niehfei from escaping into rich territories to obtain 
supplies. He accordingly caused many strong defense works to be 
erected along the banks of the great waterways, In the following 
year, at his own request, he was relieved of his difficult task, and 
returned to his post at Nanking, hi Hung-chang then became 
his successor and faithfully carried out his scheme. About this time 
the Niehfei had lost much of their force, and the movement had 
split into two. The bandits of Shantung, led by one Jen Chu 
(1£ &), had come to be known as Tung Nieh, or the Niehfei of the 
East; and those of Shansi, led by Chang Tsung-yii (?S l& M), as Hsi 
Nieh, or the Niehfei of the West. The Niehfei continued to defy 
the authority of the Imperial Government till August 1868. In 
suppressing the movement known as Hsi Nieh, Tso Tsung-tang, who 
had recently been transferred to the Viceroy alty of Shenkan, also 
rendered valuable service. 

Decapitation of Antehai in Shantung (1867).— We have 
seen that whenever there was a woman at the head of affairs in 
China, the ascendancy of the eunuchs was one of the logical 
consequences. So it was in the case of Tz'u Hsi, the mother of T'ung 
Chih ; and one of her favorite eunuchs was Antehai. What his 
mission was when he left Peking on a visit to Canton, was perhaps 
known only to Tz'u Hsi and himself. The Empress had evidently 
forgotten that there was a law which forbade the departure of 
eunuchs from Peking on pain of summary decapitation, or she 
would not have sent her favorite to his death. During those early 
days there was no regular steamer service between Tientsin and 
Shanghai, and travellers had to take the overland route which lay 
through a part of the Shantung province. The Governor of Shan- 
tung, Ting Pao-chen (T^M), had been armed with secret instructions 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 547 

from Peking, thanks to the fact that there were two Empresses- 
regent, and, in pursuance of these orders, he caused the eunuch to be 
arrested at Taianfu (^ 3c Jfr). The eunuch was charged with having 
left Peking without permission and with having travelled on board 
two dragon boats with pomp and pageantry. It is stated that Tz'ti 
Hsi knew nothing of the arrest of Antehai until an order had been 
issued for his decapitation, when it was of course too late for her to 
save his life. It is further alleged that Antehai's death was in no 
small degree responsible for the subsequent downfall of Prince Kung 
and the strained relations between the two Empresses. After the 
removal of Antehai, Li Lien-ying became the favorite eunuch of 
Tz'ti Hsi. She had learned her lesson, and never suffered this 
favorite to leave Peking. When she required things to be done outside 
of Peking, there were always men who could do them better than 
eunuchs. 

The Burlingame Mission (1867).— The year 1867 was 
also memorable for the mission China sent out to foreign countries. 
This mission, which was the first one of its kind, consisted of one 
foreigner and two Chinese. The foreigner was the Hon. Anson 
Burlingame (M S &), who had been United States Minister to 
China. The mission had instructions to visit eleven countries, in- 
cluding the United States, England, and the continental countries 
of Europe. When in 1870 Mr. Burlingame died at St. Petersburg, 
the mission was brought to an abrupt end. The other members of 
the mission were Chili Kang (J&M) (Manchu) and Sun Chia-ku 
(WM WO (Chinese), Customs Taotai and. Secretary of the Board of 
Rites, respectively. 

The Tientsin Massacre. — While the Burlingame mission 
was making favorable impressions whereveiyt went, the world 
was shocked by the news of the Tientsin Massacre. On June 21, 
1868, an angry mob took possession of the city, and before the 
authorities succeeded in dispersing them, eleven foreigners, most 
of whom were French, were barbarously butchered; and the 
French Consulate, Cathedral, and Orphanage were destroyed. 
The immediate cause of this appalling crime was the circulation 



54S OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of false reports charging the Sisters of Charity with having 
murdered Chinese children for the purpose of securing their 
eyes. That the responsibility did not rest entirely upon the 
Chinese, we have the evidence of the unprejudiced report of the 
American minister. The report bearing date of June 27th runs 
in part as follows : — "At many of the principal places in China 
open to foreign residence, the Sisters of Charity have established 
institutions, each of which appeared to combine in itself a 
foundling-hospital and an orphan asylum. Finding that the 
Chinese were adverse to placing children in their charge, the 
managers of these institutions offered a certain sum per head for 
all the children placed under their control or given to them, it 
being understood that a child once in their asylum, no parent, 
relative, or guardian could claim, or exercise any control over it. 
It has been for some time asserted by the Chinese and believed by 
most of the non-Catholic foreigners residing here that the system 
of paying bounties induced the kidnapping of children for these 
institutions for the sake of the reward. It is also asserted that 
the priests, or sisters, or both, have been in the habit of holding 
out inducements to have children brought to them in the last 

stages of illness for the purpose of being baptized In this way 

many children have been taken to these establishments in the last 
stages of disease, baptized there, and soon after taken away dead. 
All these acts, together with the secrecy and seclusion which 
appear to be a part and parcel of the regulations which govern 
institutions of this character everywhere, have created suspicions 
in the minds of the Chinese, and these suspicions have engendered 
an intense hatred against the Sisters." 

Under such circumstances, nothing short of an official 
inspection of the premises would have been sufficient to avert the 
coming danger. This procedure was suggested to the French 
Cousul by the Magistrate of Tientsin the day before the outbreak ; 
but the latter refused to discuss the matter with him, because by 
treaty stipulation a consul was of a higher rank than a magistrate. 
The French Consul was one of the victims of the mob on the 
following" day. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 549 

The news of the great massacre soon brought the naval 
forces of the leading powers to Tientsin ; and the foreign ministers 
demanded the lives of the officials responsible for the outbreak. 
The dominant feeling in China was decidedly in favor of war; but 
the wiser counsels of Ts'eng Kuo-fan, who had been transferred 
from Nanking to Tientsin, and Li Hung-chang prevailed and the 
matter was amicably settled. Sixteen Chinese were decapitated 
and the Prefect and Magistrate of Tientsin banished. The Gov- 
ernment also sent a mission to express her regrets to France for 
the occurrence, and paid an indemnity of Tls. 400,000 for the 
lives and property destroyed at Tientsin. Ch'ung Hon (#|J?), 
Commissioner of the Three Treaty Ports (HtlM^E), anda 
Manchu of high rank, became the Chinese envoy. He left Peking 
in 1871 and returned in the following year. 

Death of Ts'eng Kuo-fan. — Before the question of the 
Tientsin Massacre was finally disposed of, Ts'eng Kuo-fan was 
once more returned to his post at Nanking, which had now been 
made vacant by the assassination of Ma Hsin-i (j| §? fin). Indeed 
for many years afterward the Nanking Viceroyalty was considered 
as belonging exclusively to Hunauese. In the summer of 1872, 
only shortly after his return from Tientsin, death put an end to 
the useful career of Ts'eng Kuo-fan. He was not only great on 
account of his own position, but also because he had elevated a 
number of men of his calibre and views to responsible places. 
Tso Tsung-tang, Li Hung-chang, Liu K'un-i (fij *$ — ), Peng Yii- 
lin (<l2 3ii$), and a number of others, who stood out pre-emi- 
nently in Chinese affairs towards the close of the 19th Century, 
were, as a matter of fact, his proteges and satellites. He it was 
who trained them and brought them up from humble positions. 
Li Hung-chang and Tso Tsung-tang succeeded to much of his 
power ; but neither of them possessed his influence with the 
Chinese of the old school. To them, Ts'eng Kuo-fan was a 
philosopher and sage, as well as a great statesman and brilliant 
soldier. In spite of his power and influence, he remained to the 
last a most faithful friend of the Manchus. His death left a 
large gap which remained for a long time unfilled. 



550 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Marriage of T'ung Chih; End of the Regency.— On Octo- 
ber 16, 1872, the Emperor was married to Alute, a Manchu lady, 
amidst imposing ceremonies. According to the Chinese, as soon 
as an Emperor is old enough to take a wife, he is also old enough 
to govern an empire ! Consequently it was arranged that T'ung 
Chih should assume the reins of government himself, and on 
February 23, 1873, the joint regency of the Empresses Dowager 
was declared at an end. The two Regents were certainly entitled 
to a rest, but the period of rest, as we shall see presently, was not 
destined to be a long one. 

The First Imperial Audience.— For a long time, the foreign 
ministers had requested the privilege of seeing the Emperor- 
But every time the request had been met with the excuse that 
the Emperor was as yet a minor. Now that he himself had as. 
sinned the Imperial power it was no longer possible to deny the 
foreigners a privilege secured to them by the usage among 
civilized nations. Nor was it possible to require them to per- 
form the kowtow. After prolonged negotiations between the 
Tsungli Yamen and the Legations, the reception at length took 
place on June 29, 1873, at Tzii Kuang Ko (*&|g), the hall 
reserved for the reception of envoys from tributary states. The 
Japanese Ambassador, Soyeshima, was received first by himself, 
and immediately afterwards, the five ministers of Russia, the 
United States, Great Britain, France, and Holland. This was the 
first instance in Chinese history when foreign envoys were 
admitted into the Imperial presence without ceremonies inconsist- 
ent with their representative character. Much satisfaction was 
expressed by foreigners at the time of the reception. It took 
them sometime to find out the history of the Tzii Kuang Ko, and 
when they did discover it, it was too late to make a correction. 

Beginning of Reforms. — During the brief reign of T'ung 
Chih, a weak beginning was made in the matter of reforms. 
Arsenals were built in Foochow and Nanking, the Tung Wen 
Kuan (fRJ3t£t) were established at Peking and Canton, mathe- 
matics was introduced in the examination system, and a party 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 551 

of Chinese young men was despatched to the United States under 
the care of Dr. Yung Wing (&ffl). With all these reforms, the 
names of Ts'eng Kuo-fan, Tso Tsung-tang and Li Hung-chang 
were closely identified. 

The Mohammedan Rebellion in the Shenkan Provin- 
ces. — Ever since 1862, the Mohammedan population of the Shen- 
kan Provinces had taken the law into their own hands and had 
reduced the Imperial authority to its lowest ebb. The Moham- 
medans of this region were descendants of foreigners who came 
to the aid of the T'ang Dynasty. They had lived side by side 
with the Chinese, but the latter had never learned to love them. 
The whole trouble arose in 1862 because of a quarrel between the 
Chinese and Mohammedan militia over some spoils. It was a 
spark that kindled a fire and before long the Mohammedans of 
all the various villages took up arms against the Chinese. En- 
couraged by the successes of their brethren in Chinese Turkestan, 
and the Taipings in the Yangtze Valley, they in course of time 
became quite a formidable foe of the Government. The latter 
could make but feeble efforts to re-establish her authority. The 
fact that the Mohammedans had been able to defy the efforts of 
two famous Generals, Tulonga and Yang Yo-ping (W}-fB%k) y 
before the arrival of Tso Tsung-tang, speaks well for their 
strength. 

After the suppression of the Hsi Nieh, Viceroy Tso Tsung- 
tang was able to devote all his attention to the Mohammedans ; 
and in two years he reported the restoration of peace within the 
boundaries of Shensi province. Meanwhile the Mohammedans 
of Kansu had massed all their strength at Suchow (Hjltl) for a 
final stand. After a number of desultory battles, Viceroy Tso 
brought up his army to lay siege to this, the last stronghold of the 
enemy. In February 1873, the Imperial troops captured a temple 
outside the walls and succeeded in preventing supplies from 
getting into the city. The siege was continued till October, when 
the poor half-starved garrison surrendered. All the chiefs and 
about four thousand of their men were then put to the sword. 



552 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

The fall of Sucliow was the end of the Mohammedan Revolt, so 
far as the two provinces of Shensi and Kansu were concerned. 
The work of Tso Tsung-tang, however, was by no means finished. 

Condition of Chinese Turkestan.— The country between Su- 
cliow and Kashgaria was still the scene of trouble. In the South- 
ern Route, Benzing Khan, the last surviving son of Jehangir, 
had advanced from Khokand into Kashgaria to make another 
effort to retrieve the last fortunes of his family; and he, in turn, 
had been displaced by a Khokhandian adventurer and soldier 
named Mohammed Gakoob, the defender of Ak Musjed against 
the Russians. In the Northern Route, Russia, availing herself 
of the anarchy resulting from a long civil strife between the 
Tarantchis and the Tunganis, had siezed Kulja, on a promise to 
return it when China should prove herself capable of maintaining 
order. In short, not a vestige of China's authority, or a sign of 
prosperity remained in the territory known as Chinese Turkestan. 
However the work of its re-conquest, which added much to the fame 
of Tso Tsung-tang, does not belong to the reign of T'ung Chili. 

The Panthy Rebellion in Yunnan. — The year that marked 
the end of the Mohammedan Revolt in Sucliow, was also dis- 
tinguished by the suppression of the Panthy Insurrection in 
Yunnan. The Panthys were a Mohammedan tribe, who, taking 
advantage of the Taiping troubles, had gained complete possession 
of Western Yunnan. In 1867, Talifu was made their capital 
under the rule of Tu Wen-hsiu Ofcfc % ^) , the Sultan Suliemen of 
the French. Besieged by General Li and seeing no hope of 
escape, the insurgents in 1873 agreed to surrender Talifu on 
condition that if Tu Wen-hsiu gave himself up, the rest of the 
rebels should be spared. This having been agreed to by the 
Chinese, Tu, dressed in his royal robes, was carried into the 
Chinese camp, where he died almost immediately from the effect 
of the opium he had swallowed. The Chinese then in violation 
of their promise gave the city up to ravage and plunder, and a 
large number of people were ruthlessly massacred. Thus was the 
western part of Yunnan restored to China, after an interval of 18 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 553 

years. During these years, Tu Wen-hsiu had received through the 
Burmese large supplies of arms and ammunition which enabled 
him to prolong the struggle. He had also sent his son to England 
to seek recognition and help; but before the young man returned, 
Talifu had been restored to China. 

Japan Tries to Occupy Formosa. — Before the reign of 
T'ung Chili closed, war threatened to break out between China 
and Japan. In 1868, or 1869, a Loochoo (5K $) barque was 
wrecked on the eastern coast of Formosa ; and its crew consisting 
of some 60 persons were ruthlessy put to death by savages, who 
had known no authority save their own. That part of the island 
was separated from the cultivated districts of West Formosa, and 
covered by impenetrable forests. On the ground that she had 
never exercised any control over them, China denied respon- 
sibility for the acts of the savages. But the Japanese, who took up 
the cause of the Iyoochoos, were not satisfied. The fact was that 
Japan wanted Formosa; and in the hope of annexing it she 
sent out an expedition in 1873 under General Saigo. This 
expedition landed at Sankiu and drove out the aborigines. 
China soon became alarmed at the aggressiveness of her neighbor 
whom she had hitherto looked down upon with contempt. She 
also sent ships and soldiers into Formosa, and appointed Shen 
Pao-chen (v^fct^M), of Foochow, to the chief command. War 
seemed inevitable, as the Chinese and Japanese in Formosa might 
come into conflict almost any day. Happily Sir Thomas Wade, 
the British Minister, intervened in the interest of peace, and the 
matter was amicably settled between the Tsungli Yamen and the 
Japanese commissioners Yanagiwara and Okubo. Japan accepted 
Tls. 500,000 for her outlay in Formosa for roads, houses and 
defences, and agreed to retire from the island. 

Annexation of the Loochoo Islands. — The absurdity of 
the claims advanced by Japan in behalf of the Iyoochoo sailors 
was further demonstrated by the arrival in Peking in 1873 of 
representatives from those islands bearing tribute to the Emperor. 
This mission, probably the last of its kind, undoubtedly caused 



554 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Japan to take drastic measures. Two years later she extended 
her prefectural system into the Eoochoo Islands ; and to-day 
they form a part of the Japanese Empire under the name of the 
Okinnawa Prefecture. China protested but to no avail. As 
late as 1880, General Grant (President of the United States 
1869-1877) , when visiting the Far East, tried to effect a com- 
promise. A conference actually met in Peking and arrange- 
ments were made to divide the islands ; Japan to have the 
Northern group and China, the Southern. On the eve of signing 
this agreement, however, the Chinese drew back, pleading lack of 
pow r er to sign it. Perhaps it was considered better to lose the 
whole without a record than to retain a half with a record ! At 
any rate, the Loochoo Islands are apparently lost to China for 
all time. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER LVIII 

THE SECOND JOINT REGENCY OF THE EMPRESSES (1875-1881) 

Death of Tung Chih. — Twenty-six months after his marriage, 
the Emperor T'ung Chih had an attack of small-pox to which he 
succumbed on January 12, 1875, without leaving any offspring. 
Nor had any arrangement been made as to who should succeed 
him in that event. Thus for the first time in the history of the 
Manchus, the Dragon Throne had become vacant without an 
heir. A conference of the princes of the blood and those who were 
entitled to express an opinion, was hastily con^ene^^mide^ the 
auspices of the Empresses Tz'u An and Tz'u Hsi; and, to the 
surprise of all present, the choice fell upoira child hardly four 
years old, the son of Prince Shun (H), the youngest brother of 
Hsien Feng (J& H) . The fact was that while other candidates 
had as good a claim to the Throne, based upon the lineage of 
their fathers, the child selected, in addition to being a grandson of 
the Emperor Tao Kuang (il3fc), was also the son of a younger 
sister of the Empress Tz'u Hsi, whose decision carried the day. 

Accession of Kuang Hsii.— On January 13, 1875, the 
infant son of Prince Shun became Emperor under the title of 
Kuang Hsii (3fc*#), which signifies "Glorious Succession." Who 
should become the regent or regents during the minority of the 
Emperor ? To settle this question a precedent was not far to 
seek. The persons who had acted as regents for his predecessor 
with ability and success were both there. They not only 
possessed the experience, but were also in office ; since by an edict 
of December 18, 1874, the Emperor T'ung Chih had declared 
his inability to rule, and had requested the Empresses Tz'ii An 
and Tz'u Hsi to assume temporarily the reins of government. 
Inasmuch as the new Emperor was too young to express an 
opinion, it only remained for the princes and ministers to make a 
request, and the Empresses " reluctantly to consent." This 
formality duly observed, the re-establishment of the regency 
became an accomplished fact. 



556 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 




KUANG HSU 

Death of the Empress Chia Shun.— About the time the two 
Imperial women were thus installed in their former positions, the 
widow of T'ung Chili had conveniently died. It is now a matter 
of common knowledge that she had not been in favor with the 
Empress Tz'u Hsi, and had been deliberately ignored during the 
progress of the negotiations that resulted in the elevation of 
Kuang Hsu. Her death took place on March 28, 1875. To her, 
who, in spite of her position, actually regarded her life as not 
worth living after the demise of her husband, will be given the 
sympathy of all ages. The future impartial historian may have 
something to say in connection with her death ; but for the 
present we must attribute it to her grief over her bereavement. 
Owing to the fact that no burial ground had been prepared for 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 557 

either the Emperor T'ung Chili or his widow, their funerals were 
delayed until 1S79. After her death, she was given the posthu- 
mous name of Chia Shun (M Mfi). 

The Question of Succession. — The most peculiar feature 
of the appointment of Kuang Hsu w r as that he came to the 
Throne as the adopted son of Hsien Feng instead of Tung Chili. 
Being both grandsons of Tao Kuang, it was of course out of 
the question to make Kuang Hsii son of T'ung Chili. But why 
was he chosen instead of one of the next generation ? The 
decree of January 12, 1875, which gave him the Throne, provided 
that his first son, when born, was to become the adopted son of 
T'ung Chili. So far all was well and good. Nevertheless grave 
apprehensions were entertained by many that the adopted sou 
might not necessarily be the heir to the Throne. In that event 
the house of Hsien Feng would eventually become extinct and 
the line of succession be diverted to that of Prince Shun. To 
the Chinese mind, this was undesirable. So much importance 
was attached to this question that a Manchu censor boldly 
protested against the choice, though his memorial was ignored. 
In 1879, Wu K'o-tu (^ pj M). an under-secretary of the Board of 
Appointments (^ ^ ± 3£) , thought of a novel manner of present- 
ing his protest on the same subject. He had deliberately waited 
till the funeral of T'ung Chili had taken place. Having attended 
the funeral ceremonies, he confided a sealed memorial to a 
priest with instructions to present it to the local authorities, and 
then committed suicide by taking a large dose of opium. As 
under-secretary of a board he had no right to present a memorial 
direct to the Throne, not to speak of addressing the Empresses 
on so important a subject. Had it not been for his suicide, his 
protest might never have reached its high destination. It had 
the desired effect, however, and brought forth another decree in 
the name of the Empresses, making it impossible to divert the 
line of succession as had been feared. 

The Murder of Margary. — When Kuang Hsii ascended the 
Throne, China was on the verge of war with Great Britain. 



r*n* OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

The desire of tlie latter to open up a trade route into Yunnan, by 
way of Burma, was not a new one. As early as 1868 a small 
party of Englishmen penetrated as far north as Moumien, and 
was then obliged to retreat on account of the serious opposi- 
tion it had aroused. The attempt was renewed in 1874. This 
time it was arranged that an officer conversant with the Chinese 
language and customs should be sent from the Legation at 
Peking to meet the expedition, which was under charge of Col. 
H. Browne, and conduct it to Hankow. The choice fell upon 
R. A. Margary, of the British Consular Service, who, equipped 
with passports from the Tsungli Yamen, arrived at Bhamo with- 
out molestation or accident (January 26, 1875). Then it was 
that rumors of determined resistance on the part of the natives of 
Yunnan began to reach Col. Browne. At this juncture, Mr. 
Margary went alone to investigate matters. He never returned ; 
and, according to the best evidences available, he was murdered 
at Manyiin (g£ ^fe) February 20, 1875. Col. Browne's party was 
attacked on the next day and made to withdraw. 

The Joint Commission. — When the death of Margary 
became known, the British Minister at Peking demanded full 
reparation, holding Ts'en Yti-ying (^II3£), the acting Viceroy 
of Yiin-kuei, responsible for it. He also availed himself of the op- 
portunity to press for settlement of several outstanding questions 
which had no connection with the case. After months of cor- 
respondence , a joint commission was appointed to investigate 
matters on the spot, Li Han-chang (^ fft #), brother of LA Hung- 
chang, being one of the Chinese commissioners. No satisfactory 
conclusion was arrived at in Yunnan. 

The Chef oo Convention. — In the following year, the British 
Minister threatened to break off diplomatic relations and actually left 
Peking in August; but on Sept. 13th at Chefoo he and Li Hung- 
chang signed a convention which averted the danger of war. 
China was to pay an indemnity of 200,000 taels, which included all 
claims of British merchants against the Chinese Government; to open 
four more ports for consular residence, besides six on the Yangtze 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 559 

for the landing of goods; to send an Imperial letter to London 
expressing regrets for the Yunnan occurrence; and to publish 
throughout the Empire an Imperial proclamation enjoining upon the 
local authorities the responsibility of according clue protection to 
foreigners travelling under Chinese passports. The treaty further 
required official intercourse to be conducted on a footing of perfect 
equality, and enacted new regulations respecting the opium trade and 
the collection of likin and transit dues. With regard to the trade of 
West China, which had prompted the Browne Mission, England was 
to station officers at Talifu, or some other place in Yunnan, to study 
trade conditions ; and China was to facilitate the progress of an 
English party of exploration from Peking through Kansu and 
Kokonor, or by way of Szechuan, to Tibet. 

Establishment of Chinese Legations and Consulates in 
Foreign Countries.— The year 1876 marked the establishment of 
the Chinese Legation in London. The plan, in fact, had been 
decided upon before the Yunnan case arose; but its developments 
caused the hurrying forward of the arrangements for the departure 
of the Chinese Minister, Kuo Sung-tao (*\LMm), a distinguished 
Chinese scholar and native of Hunan. It is of interest to note that 
the first man who had the honor of representing China abroad 
belonged to an anti-foreign province. The newly appointed minister 
eventually became the bearer of the Imperial letter provided for in 
the Chefoo Convention. In his staff there was an Englishman named 
Halliday Macartney, who was for many years an invaluable servant 
of the Legation. Other representatives were sent abroad, and 
legations were soon established in other countries. In those days, a 
Chinese minister was often accredited to several governments at the 
same time, and had authority to appoint, or remove consuls who 
were considered mere members of his embassy. 

The Shanghai- Woosung Railway.— The first railway in 
China was a short line between Shanghai and Woosung, constructed 
under the supervision of an English Company. By the summer of 
1876 it was open to traffic, and many foreigners thought that at no 
distant date China would be covered by a network of railways. In 



560 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

this they were disappointed. The line having aroused the animosity 
of the Chinese, its operation had to be suspended under instructions 
from the British Legation at Peking. The Chinese Government 
then purchased the railway and permitted it to be torn up, in order 
that its materials might be transported to Formosa, where they were 
finally used in building up a road, owned by China. Notwithstanding 
this first attempt, the introduction of railway transportation in China 
had to be postponed to a subsequent date. 

The Weihsing Lottery of Kuangtung.— Kuangtung, having 
enjoyed for a century or two a monopoly of China's foreign trade, 
was a great gambling center. The worst instance was undoubtedly 
the Weihsing (Rj j&) lottery, a scheme based upon the practice of 
drawing the names of successful candidates at the triennial examina- 
tions. It had thousands of patrons from all walks of life, and in 
every part of the Empire; and thus brought the entire examination 
system into disrepute. The highest official in Canton, as well as 
the humblest inhabitant of an outlying village, was interested. 
Although the scheme was declared illegal by an Imperial decree in 
1874, and severe penalties were pronounced against it, yet the evil 
continued to exist. On August 11, 1875, the Viceroy and several 
other high officials were stripped of their rank, or otherwise punished, 
for their connection with it. The lottery was then temporarily 
suppressed. 

The Great Famine of Shansi. — The province of Shansi can 
boast of few waterways such as bless the South; and, from its 
peculiar physical character, is always dependent upon the rainfall for 
moisture and fertility. In 1878 a drought in this province produced 
a great famine. The fearful destruction of life was estimated at 
from nine and a half to thirteen million souls. The Government 
furnished food and supplies to the amount of Tls. 2,000,000, while 
private subscriptions were received from every part of the Empire. 
Even the charity of London and New York showed itself in sending 
money to China; and many missionaries gladly assisted in the relief 
work. Had it not been for the generous Governor, Ts'eng Ktto- 
ch'uan (f"IS 3£), the famine might have worked even greater havoc 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 561 

amortg the people. Nothing could better have illustrated the need of 
railways in China than this great famine ; but the lesson was entirely 
lost on the Government. 

First Stage of the Kashgarian Campaign.— During all the 

years of famine and foreign complications, China was prosecuting a 
frontier war with vigor and success. The fall of Suchow (|g >)]]) in 
1873 was the beginning of a campaign having for its object the 
recovery oi the whole territory known as the New Dominion ($?§!). 
By the time Kuang Hsu came to the Throne, preparations for its 
prosecution were far advanced towards completion; and General 
Chinshun (-& M) had, under instructions of Tso Tsung-tang (£ ^ ^), 
crossed the desert by way of Uliasutai (.% *1 #t M) to the West. 
It was necessary to destroy the power of the Tungani before 
China could call Yacoob Beg to account ; and Tso's plan was 
to seize the two cities of Barkul (EiM^) and Hami (lfr$) as the 
base of his future operations. Chinshun arrived before the walls 
of Barkul early in 1875 ; but met with no resistance. A few 
days later, Hami was also occupied. The leaders of the Tung- 
ani had gathered all their available forces for a final stand at 
Urumtsi (.%^^c^) and Manas (a^HftSff). The work of opening- 
direct communications with Suchow occupied the Chinese army for 
the whole of the next twelve months ; and during this time the 
Chinese soldiers were made to till the ground as well as build 
fortifications. 

With the year 1876 the arduous part of the campaign began. 
Urumtsi, about 300 miles west of Barkul, was the first object of 
attack. Chinshun, who had been joined by Liu Chin-tang (gij $g ^), 
Taotai of the Sining District ("fr M M m *I) and Commander of the 
Advance (& sffifij 15c * ^), now moved forward to Kuch'eng (#$), 
where he established a fortified camp and a powder factory. Towards 
the end of July the Chinese army resumed its march; and, between 
August 10 and 15, several battles were fought with results in their 
favor. After twenty- four hours' bombardment, the enemy's strong 
position at Gumti (# ^c i&) was carried by storm, and some 6,000 
men were said to have been slaughtered. Following up this victory, 



562 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Chinshun by a rapid march arrived before the city of Urumtsi which 
was evacuated without a blow. Manas, the next and last stronghold 
of the Tungani, after a siege of two months, during which several 
mines were sprung under its walls and several assaults were 
repulsed, surrendered on November 4, 1876. In an attempt to 
escape, its garrison, to the number of three thousand men, was cut 
down; but the women, children, and old men were spared by 
Chinshun's express orders. Thus was the Tungani movement, which 
was begun at Hochow Offi JH) in 1862, put down in 1876. The 
work was done before Yacoob Beg had time to come to the rescue 
of his northern friends. 

Second Stage of the Kashgaria Campaign.— The next 
move of the Chinese was upon Turfan (n± @ #), the key to all the 
cities of Tienshan Nanlu. Here Yacoob Beg had gathered some 
8,000 men with twenty guns for a stand, with his second son at the 
head of 6,000 men at Taksourn several miles to the rear. The 
forces to oppose these were the army of Chinshun at Urumtsi and 
that of General Chang Yao (M ®) at Hami. No fighting took place 
until the month of March. Then the Kashgarians were driven out 
of Pidjam by Chang Yao; and, after a battle, compelled to 
abandon Turfan. A second fight occurred at Taksourn, and again 
Yacoob Beg was defeated. The latter now retired with the remnant 
of his army to Korla, where he died May 1, 1877. One account 
says he died of fever; but another declares that it was poison 
administered by Hakim Khan Torah. His death simplified the 
reconquest of Kashgaria to a considerable extent. When his 
remains were taken to Kashgar, the capital, for interment, his eldest 
son, Kuli Beg, murdered his younger brother, Haikula, over their 
father's bier; and this was followed by a civil strife between Kuli 
Beg and Hakim Khan Torah. Consequently when Liu Chin-tang 
renewed his march from Taksourn in September, he found most of 
his work had been done. Both Karashar and Korla were occupied 
with little, or no opposition. Aksu surrendered at the end of October 
and Ush Turfan yielded a few days later, leaving only the four 
western cities to be recaptured. 






OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 563 

In December the Chinese seized Marabashi, an important 
position on the Kashgar Darya commanding- the roads to both 
Yarkand and Kashgar. Lin Chin-tang moved rapidly upon the 
former which surrendered without a blow on December 21. When 
he arrived with his force from Yarkand, the city of Kashgar had 
been besieged for nine days by Chinese soldiers from Marabashi. A 
battle ensued and resulted in the complete overthrow of Kuli Beg. The 
city with its citadel outside was captured December 27, 1877 ; and 
several leaders and some eleven hundred Mohammedans were said 
to have been executed. Kuli Beg, however, made good his escape 
into Russian territory. With the fall of Kashgar, the Kashgaria 
campaign came to a triumphant conclusion; and, before the close of 
the year, both Yanghissar and Khotand passed into the hands of 
their rightful owners. 

Financing the Campaign. — The most difficult problem in 
connection with the Kashgarian campaign lay in the feeding of the 
army rather than in the conquering of the enemy. The contributions 
due the Shen-Kan provinces from the South had long been in 
arrears on account of the Taiping Rebellion; and Tso Tsung-tang, 
at one time, was obliged to raise a foreign loan of more than 
Tls. 6,000,000. In the desert the Chinese army was provisioned 
largely from Russian soil ; but, during the greater part of the 
campaign, it subsisted upon what it was able to raise on the spot. It 
does not appear that the army that took Yarkand and Kashgar 
numbered more than twenty thousand men. The reconquest was 
accomplished by consummate generalship and superiority in arms and 
organization rather than by overwhelming numbers. In spite of the 
billions of taels that passed through his hands and were expended 
under his directions, Tso Tsung-tang remained the poorest man of 
his position. 

Treaty of Livadia. — With Kashgaria restored, the Govern- 
ment was in a position to call the attention of the Czar to his 
promise respecting Hi. However, Ch'ung Hon (% %), the man who 
was entrusted with this important task, was not likely to achieve a 
diplomatic victory. He had little or no experience in dealing with 



564 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

foreign governments, and knew nothing of the geography of his 
own country. He agreed to pay Russia 5,000,000 rubles for 
expenses in connection with her occupation of Hi, and let her retain 
all the fruitful valley of the Tekes River together with the city of 
Yarkand, and the important passes in the Tienshan Range. Russia 
was also to have the right of navigation on the Sungari River in 
Manchuria, to open a through trade route from Hankow to Suchow, 
and thence to Kuldja and Siberia, and to establish caravan stations 
at 36 other frontier cities. All these privileges were embodied in a 
document commonly known as the Treaty of Livadia. The only 
concession made by Russia consisted of the return of a small portion 
of the Kuldja district to China. When the provisions of the treaty 
were sufficiently known in China, the author became the subject of 
criticism and a perfect stream of memorials poured in upon the 
Throne protesting against its ratification. The fate of the poor 
ambassador was. sealed. Upon his return from St. Petersburg, he 
was thrown into the prison connected with the Board of Punish- 
ments at Peking, with a death sentence hanging over him. His life 
was saved by the representations of Marquis Ts'eng (WIEr?), son of 
Ts'eng Kuo-fan, and successor of Kuo Sung-tao at the Court of 
St. James. 

Treaty of St. Petersburg. — Peking was now full of rumours 
of war. Tso Tsung-tang, bent upon an invasion of Russia, moved 
forward from Suchow to Hami ; and Ts'eng Kuo-ch'iian was 
appointed Commander-in-Chief of an army at Shanhaikuan to 
guard against a possible invasion by Russia. But in the midst 
of these warlike preparations, wiser counsel prevailed. Marquis 
Ts'eng was sent from London to St. Petersburg to negotiate a new 
treatv. He recovered more territory, paid more money, and 
succeeded in having the greater part of the objectionable features 
of the Treaty of Livadia modified. The treaty of St. Petersburg- 
(Feb. 12, 1881) put an end to all preparations for war, and this 
diplomatic success made Marquis Ts'eng very popular with his 
own countrvmen. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 565 

Province of Hsinkiang. — With the exception of a small 
western strip, China now came once more into possession of the 
Hi valley. This and the Kashgar valley to the south was 
organized into a new province, known as Hsinkiang ($r3l). 
Meanwhile Tso Tsnng-tang had been made a Marquis and 
recalled to Peking, to take up his important appointment on the 
Grand Council. Lin Chin-tang became the first Governor of the 
new province, and his official residence was fixed at Urnmtsi 
which, under its new name of Tihwafu (it-fb/fr), became the 
capital. 

Termination of the Joint Regency.— Shortly after the 
recovery of Hi, the most important personage in Peking passed 
away. Before the Peking world knew of her illness, the death of 
the Senior Empress was announced. By her determination, 
wisdom, and tact, China had been restored to the Manchus. 
During her regime no foreign wars disturbed the peace of China, 
and every revolutionary movement within the Empire had been 
put down. Although she never had a son of her own on the 
Throne, it is a matter of common knowledge that both T'ung Chili 
and Kuang Hsii showed a preference for her. She was the model 
of frugality, and no palace scandal, or eunuch intrigue, has ever 
been recorded against her. Her death (April 18, 1881) left the 
Empress Ts'u Hsi, the playmate of her youth, the sole Regent of 
China, with the destiny of four hundred millions of human 
beings in her hands. 



566 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER L1X 

THE FRANCO-CHINESE WAR AND SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 

(1882-1886) 

Cause of the War. — In 1884, or twenty-five years after the 
treaty of Peking, war once more broke ont between China and 
France. The cause of this war was the latter \s aggressions in 
Annam, a tributary state of China. France had long fixed her 
eyes on the Indo-China peninsula. In her rivalry with England 
for trade and influence in the Far East she desired to create a large 
colonial empire in the vicinity of British India, and to reach the 
rich province of Yunnan. In order to understand the situation, 
a brief sketch of the early intercourse between France and Annam 
is necessary. 

Early French Relations with Annam. — The beginning 
of French interest in Indo-China dates as far back as the time 
when Annam again acknowledged the suzerainty of China. As 
will be remembered, a rebellion which took place in that country 
during the time of Ch'ien Lung resulted in the establishment 
of a new government by the usurper. An exiled member of the 
old royal house, at the instance of a French Bishop, sent his eldest 
son to Paris to implore the aid of Louis XVI. This was in the 
fifty-ninth year of Ch'ien Lung (1787). Aid was promised on 
condition that France should be allowed to establish a protector- 
ate over Annam : owing however to the French Revolution and the 
downfall of Louis XVI the promise came to nothing. Meanwhile, 
the 'Bishop in question, impatient of the delay, actually equipped 
two merchant ships with men and war materials, and with but 
little fighting placed King Chia Lung (HPf), as he is known to 
foreign writers, upon the Aunamese throne. In the Chinese 
records Chia Lung is known by the name of Juan Fu-ying ($c #£ 
Hju, for, after the usual custom, Chia Lung had two names, one 
of which was used exclusively in communications with Peking. 
Chia Lung naturally felt grateful for the Bishop's help and 
extended unbounded favours towards the French missionaries. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 567 

After the King's death, however, there was a period of bitter 
hostility. Between 1833 and 1839 eleven missionaries and thou- 
sands of Annamese converts were massacred. For the reason 
already stated, France was in no position to avenge the death of 
her citizens till 1858. But in that year, the French Admiral 
destroyed the forts at Tourane, the seaport of Hue, and captured 
the town of Saigon (St), which henceforth became the seat of 
French government in Cochin-China (*£ fik 3c 2J|5). The China 
campaign put a temporary stop to French activities in Annam, 
but after the peace of Peking, Ssii Te (ffi *§), the successor of Chia 
Lung, was made to cede to France the three provinces of Pien 
Ho (a*n), Chia Ting (#£) and Ting Hsiang (jfejft). In 1867 
France appropriated three more provinces in Cochin-China. Thus 
far French agression had been confined to the South or Nan-chi. 

Treaty of 1874.— In November 1873, Admiral Dupre (^ &), 
Governor of Cochin-China, sent Lieutenant Gamier (^ ffi) with a 
handful of soldiers to explore Tonquin C^jr). Gamier at once 
demanded of the governor of Hanoi the immediate opening of the 
whole of the Red River delta to French enterprise; and, upon his 
refusal, took the citadel of Hanoi by assault and captured all the 
strong places between that city and the sea. At this juncture, 
the Annamese called in the aid of the "Black Flags OH ]$£:£), " 
the remnants of the defeated and scattered Taiping rebel army. 
Under their leader, Liu Yung-fu ($] zic »S) , the Black Flags drove 
the French out of Hanoi and killed Gamier in an ambush (De- 
cember 21st). About two weeks after this disaster, M. Philaster 
arrived at Hanoi and signed a treaty of peace with the Annamese, 
and agreed to withdraw the French garrisons from places oc- 
cupied by Gamier. In return free navigation on the Songkai up 
to the Yunnan border was guaranteed by Annam, whilst French 
troops under the guise of Consular escorts were to hold several 
strategic ports in Tonquin. In other words, France acquired a 
virtual control over Tonquin at the nominal price of withdrawing 
the surviving campanies of Garnier's force, which were probably 
too weak to be left behind in face of the overwhelming number 

Black Flaes." 



56S OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

China's Policy Towards Her Tributary States. — The 

policy of China in respect to tributary states had been to exact 
from them as little as possible and to assume no responsibility 
for them. Their periodical tributes were desired for the sake of 
national pride rather than for their intrinsic value. As a matter 
of fact, China paid dearly for them in the form of imperial gifts 
with which each tribute-bearing envoy was loaded. So far as the 
internal affairs of a tributary state were concerned, it was not 
China's wont to interfere. Chinese statesmen realized that the 
presence of French soldiers in Tonquin would be a source of 
danger to the provinces of Kuangsi and Yunnan, and for this they 
were led to depart from their established policy. In 1880 the 
King of Annam appealed to China for help in suppressing a local 
uprising. China sent troops into Tonquin, and with their aid 
the rebellion w r as put down, but the troops, for obvious reasons, 
remained in the country. That the Annamese, in spite of the 
Treaty of 1874, looked to Peking rather than to France for 
protection, shows how little love was lost upon the French. Un- 
der the very eyes of the French resident, mission after mission 
was sent to Peking either to present costly tribute or to thank 
the Emperor for help rendered. 

Treaty of 1883. — In 1882 a small force under Commandant 
Henri Riverei ($c ^) was sent from Saigon to reinforce the two 
companies of consular guards which had been shut up in Hanoi 
for more than a year. Though Riverei had instructions to avoid 
hostilities, yet he proceeded to capture Hanoi and other places in 
the delta. This circumstance once more brought the "Black 
Flags" and their leader to the front; and, like Gamier, Riverei 
was lured into an ambush and killed. France now felt that her 
national honour was at stake. With a fresh contingent of troops 
from Europe numbering 7,000 men, Admiral Courbet stormed 
Hue, took the capital, and at the mouth of the cannon secured 
from the Kin<>- a new agreement, setting China's suzeraintv at 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 569 

naught. This agreement was signed August 25, 1883. The 
King was also requested to destroy the seal of investiture his 
predecessors had received from China. 

Commencement of Hostilities Between China and 
France. — Such humiliating treatment China was bound to resent. 
Marquis Ts'eng, her envoy at London, who was also accredited to 
Russia and France, informed the French Government that the 
comtemplated attack upon Soutay and Bacninh would be regarded 
as a casus belli. But his warning had no effect. Both places were 
attacked and taken and the Chinese troops, forming part of their 
garrisons, were obliged to retire. For this, Tang Kang and Hsu 
Yen-hsu, governors of Yunnan and Kuangsi, respectively, were 
condemned to death. To the surprise of the world, although a 
French army had met a Chinese army in open battle and Tonquin 
was rapidly being reduced to submission, neither country had issued 
a formal declaration of war. In the battle of Bacninh, the flower 
of the " Black Flag" army was annihilated. 

Dismissal of Prince Kung. — The reverses and trend of 
events in Tonquin furnished the Empress Tz'u Hsi with an excuse 
for getting rid of a prince who had been one of the most important 
personages in the Grand Council ever since the signing of the treaty 
of Peking. By a stroke of the pen, Prince Kung was ordered to 
vacate all his posts " in order to recuperate his health," while his 
less fortunate colleagues on the Grand Council received their dismis- 
sal in plain language. This was the only instance in its history 
when the Grand Council was dismissed en masse. Thus Prince 
Kung, in the prime of life and after many years of service, was 
placed upon the " sick " list, and' for the following years was 
consigned to obscurity until another foreign war in 1894 brought 
about his return to favour and his restoration to office. Prince Kung 
was succeeded in the Grand Council by Prince Li and at the Tsungli 
Vamen by Prince Ch'ing, then a prince of the third order. But the 
man who succeeded to his powers and to the undivided confidence of 
the Empress was Prince Shun (g£), the father of the Emperor. Prince 
Slum had lived in retirement since the elevation of his son to the 



570 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

throne, and it was only in view of the urgent need that he consented 
to emerge from his retirement. Though he could not serve under 
his son, he could accept office under the regency of his sister-in-law. 
His appointment was followed by that of many Taiping war veterans 
to responsible positions in the southern provinces. Thus a war party 
was now in power. 

The Faunier Treaty : French Reverse at Liangsan — The 
Empress, who did not hesitate to decree the fall of Prince Kung, 
still lent her ear to hi Hung-chang, Viceroy of Chihli, although he, 
too, had been under a cloud. On May 11, 1883, the result of his 
negotiations with Captain Faunier CMM |£) at Tientsin was announced 
in the form of a treaty. France received no part of the £6,000,000 
she had demanded. Further, she agreed to respect China's suzerainty 
over Annam, and to protect Tonquin against all comers ; whilst 
China, on her part, agreed to withdraw her soldiers within her own 
border. Curiously enough the Faunier Treaty, as the instrument is 
commonly called, instead of ending the strife, really marked the 
commencement of fresh hostilities. Before the Chinese commander 
had had time to receive his instructions to retire from Liangsan (g$ 
Ul), the French advanced upon his position and tried to dislodge him. 
The result was a severe reverse to the French. 

Destruction of Chinese Fleet and Arsenal at Foochow.— 
In retaliation Admiral Courbet immediately proceeded to blockade 
the island of Formosa. Further, taking advantage of the fact that no 
war had been declared, he succeeded in getting eight ships past the 
forts at the mouth of the Min River and anchored them m front of 
the Foochow Arsenal, which had been erected by French engineers in 
the employ of the Chinese Government. On August 23rd, 1884, 
Courbet, in compliance with the telegraphic orders he received, opened 
lire upon a Chinese fleet of eleven wooden vessels gathered for the 
protection of the arsenal, and in seven minutes completed their 
destruction. The Imperial Commssioner. Chang P'ei-lun (mM%m), 
fkd to a village at the foot of Ktishan. Owing to his connections at 
Peking and to his skill in disguising the facts, Chang P'ei-lun was 
not punished 1:11 several months afterwards. The natives of Fukien, 



OUTLINES OV CHINESE HISTORY 571 

however, never forgave him, and to-day the spot where he fled at 
the first cry of war is marked by a tablet. Oii the day after the 
battle, the defenceless arsenal was burned together with its machinery 
and stores. But just when Foochow expected to see the enemy at 
its gates, the French fleet steamed out of the harbour to resume the 
blockade of Formosa. On their way to the sea, they stormed and 
took the Mingan and Kingpie forts from the rear. 

The Franco-Chinese Treaty of 1885. — During the remainder 
of 1884 and the early part of 1885, the war was carried on fitfully 
in both Formosa and Tonquin. In Formosa the French occupied 
Keelung, but their further progress inland was checked by General 
Liu Mmg-ch'uan (§ij it fi) . In Tcnquin they were even less fortunate. 
Disease reduced the strength of their army to such an extent that 
10,000 more men had to be sent from France. These arrived in 
January 1885, and after hard fighting drove the Chinese out of 
Liangsan in February, but only to evacute it themselves at the end 
of March. Their loss of Liangsan, however, was counterbalanced in 
the same month by their success in occupying the Pescadores, "the 
Door of Formosa." It was while matters were in this state that 
preliminaries of peace were arranged at Peking between Sir Robert 
Hart and M. Billot (April 4). Two months later, a new treaty 
was signed by Li Hung-chang and M. Patenotie at Tientsin. Ir 
was substantially the old Faunier treaty of twelve months before. 
Keelung and the Pescadores were to be evacuated immediately, two 
ports in South China were to be opened to foreign trade and resid- 
ence, and the Tonquin frontier was to be delimited by a commission. 
In her attempt to secure an indemnity from China to cover the cost 
of the war, France was entirely unsuccessful. In certain respects the 
treaty was modified by the trade arrangement of 1886 and an 
additional Convention of 1887. 

The Dying Memorial of General Tso Tsnng-tang.— After 
the conclusion of peace, death overtook General Tso Tsung-tang at 
Foochow, where he had arrived a few months before in the capacity 
of Imperial High Commissioner. In his dying memorial to the 
throne, he outlined a most elaborate system of reform which, in his 



'.Tl 1 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

opinion, should be adopted without delay. Among the innovations 
he advocated were the construction of railways., the improvement of 
the navy and coast defence, scientific mining and manufactures, the 
regulation of finance, and the encouragement of foreign studies. 
General Tso had been in delicate health for years, but he grieved 
deeply over the destruction of the Foochow Arsenal, which had been 
built at his instance. He died at Foochow on Sept. 6, 1885, at the 
ripe age of 73. 

The Beginning of the Pei Yang Defensive Forces.— If 

China was not ready to put into effect all the suggestions of General 
Tso, she was fully convinced of the advantage of having a strong 
navy. During the blockade of Formosa, General Liu Ming-ch'uan 
had time and again appealed to Peking for additional supplies 
of men and arms, but no succor ever reached him. In fact the two 




Port Arthur : Kast and West Bavs 



iron-clads which had been ordered by Li Hung-chang from Germany 
were kept deliberately in Europe till the war was over. These ships 
which arrived in Chinese waters soon after the conclusion of the 
war and other ships built in England formed the nucleus of the Pei 
Yang Uh W) or Northern Squadron. Foreign experts were engaged 
to construct fortifications at Port Arthur (M M) and Weihaiwei (j£ 
Jgflfr), and to train both a naval and a military force. The Nanyang 
(ffa #) or Southern ileet was organized separately. Acting upon the 
suggestion of General Tso, a commission was created to take control 
»f naval affairs and all matters pertaining to the coast defence. At 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 573 

the head of this commission stood Prince Shun and Marquis Ts'eng, 
the latter being recalled from England to take up this more im- 
portant duty at home. In 1890 the commission was transformed 
into a new Board called the Board of Admiralty (^ ^ ^) when 
Prince Shun became its Comptroller-General and Li Hung-chang and 
Marquis Ts'eng its Associate Comptrollers-General. The Board was 
organized on the model of the Grand Council and the Tsungli Yamen. 

Tour of Prince Shun.— In the summer of 1886, Prince Shun 
went to Tientsin on a tour of inspection. This was the first time in 
China's history that a prince so near the Throne had made a tour of 
such a character. Leaving Tientsin he visited Port Arthur and 
Chefoo. He was escorted by the Peiyang fleet, and exchanged visits 
with foreign admirals and other representatives of foreign powers 
wherever he went. The most extraordinary feature of his tour, 
however, was the fact that the father of the Emperor was accom- 
panied by the eunuch Li Lien-ying (^M%), the head chamberlain of 
the Empress. Several months after the visit, Li Lien-ying became 
the subject of an impeachment. It did him no harm, but, on the 
contrary, brought the downfall of its author. The Empress, how r ever, 
took care to say that the latter was not punished for his "groundless " 
charges against a eunuch, but because of his insinuations against the 
father of the Emperor. As she put it, the true mission of the 
eunuch was to look after the health of Prince Shun, who found in 
him " as faithful a servant as any eunuch he could have brought 
from his own household." It is hardly necessary to add that this 
explanation coupled with the degradation of his accuser was final. 

The Burma Convention. — The year that saw the end of diffi- 
culties with France in Tonquin, saw also the establishment of British 
authority in Burma ($5 iej) , and the termination of China's nominal 
suzerainty over that country. In a convention signed at Peking on 
July 24, 1886, commonly called the Burma Convention, China agreed 
to allow England to do what she pleased in all matters appertaining 
to her authority and rule in Burma, whose capital had been occupied 
by a British force in the previous year and whose King had been 
carried a captive into India. In its memorial to the Throne submitting 



574 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

this convention, the Tsnngii Yamen stated that inasmuch as Burma 
had made a treaty with England and France without the knowledge 
or consent of China, she had put herself to blame for the disastrous 
result, and that it was certainly not worth China's while to go to 
war on her account. The last sentence came nearer the truth. 
The article in this treaty providing for the sending by Burma of the 
customary decennial mission to China undoubtedly sounds well, but 
it remained for China to enforce its observance. " The Queen's 
Ministers thus obtained a practical advantage quite equal to that 
secured by a political and commercial rival in a vassal state where 
Chinese pretensions to suzerainty were precisely similar." By the 
Convention, England also consented to postpone till a convenient 
season a mission of exploration to Tibet, — a right she had secured 
by the Chefoo Convention. The period from 1882 to 1895, indeed, 
may be termed the period when China lost, her Tributary States. 
The seizure of the Loochoo Islands by Japan has already been 
referred to, whilst the Corean question belongs rather to the chapter 
on the Japanese war. It is only necessary to relate here the 
circumstances connected with the occupation and return by England 
of Port Hamilton on the Corean coast. 

Restitution of Port Hamilton to Corea.— Port Hamilton 
is one of the islands in the Nan-how group, lying in latitude 34° off 
the south coast of Corea, and controling the southern entrance to 
the Japan Sea. It was seized by England in April 1885, ostensibly to 
check the suspected design of Russia upon Corea. Russia had 
already begun the construction of her trans-Siberian Railway and it 
was evident that she would not have gone to so much expense and 
trouble without making sure that she could establish her eastern 
terminus in some ice- free port. That port was thought to be in 
Corea, hence the action of England. British statesmen evidently 
feared that the possession of a naval station further north than 
Hongkong would give Russia a naval advantage she had not hitherto 
sessed. Port Hamilton, however, proved to be a disappointing 
acquisition. In the first place, its harbor was too accessible from 
the sea; and, in the second place, its fortification would entail a heavy 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 575 

-inlay. Besides, its continued occupation finally aroused the ani- 
mosity of the Russian Government which threatened, in 1886, to 
seize some other place in Corea, if the British did not retire from 
the island. Under these circumstances, the British Government 
through the Chinese Minister in London signified its willingness to 
give up the island on receiving an assurance thai it should not be 
ceded to any other European power. China being glad to do any- 
thing she could to establish her suzerainty over Corea, the desired 
guarantee was furnished, and the British flag at Port Hamilton was 
hauled down February 27, 1887. This incident as will be seen* had 
a most significient bearing upon the course of later events in the 
Orient. 

Likin on Opium. — The question of the opium likin raised 
in the Chefoo Convention was not settled till 1885. In that year, 
a new agreement was signed in London by Marquis Ts'eng with 
the British Foreign Office, modifying the former convention to a 
certain extent. The import tax of Tls. 30 per chest remained 
unchanged, but in addition to this, a likin or an interior customs 
charge of Tls. 80 was to be collected. The likin thus provided 
was to be paid at once into the imperial treasury and no provincial 
official is permitted to collect any further levy upon the drug. It 
was the hope of the Tsungli Yamen that this prohibitive tariff 
would gradually lessen the importation. The hope has not been 
realized. On the contrary, the new agreement it was found tied 
the hands of provincial authorities in no small measure and inter- 
fered with the adoption of schemes for the suppression of the 
opium evil. The Chinese provincial officials, as a matter of fact, 
could not touch the imported opium, save perhaps to smoke it, 
as most of them formerly did, after it had paid the duty and likin. 
The additional Article to the Chefoo Convention, as the new 
agreement is called, left open the question of the port limits, viz.. 
the area in a treaty port where no likin should be collected. 

Opium Smuggling in Hongkong. — Hongkong had long 
been used as a rendezvous by opium smugglers. The solution 
of the likin problem was followed in 1886 by the appointment 



576 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of Taotai Shao Yu-lien and Sir Robert Hart as Chinese Com- 
missioners to confer with the Hongkong authorities as to the. 
best means of protecting China's revenue. The result was an 
agreement on the part of the Hongkong authorities to prohibit 
the import or export of raw opium in quantities less than one 
chest, except by the opium farmer, and the establishment of a 
customs station at Kowloon under the Inspector-General of Cus- 
toms, for the purpose of opium clearances. Taotai Shao having 
left Hongkong before the conference was officially terminated, the 
responsibility of concluding the Opium Convention rested entirely 
with Sir Robert Hart. It was stipulated that all the terms agreed 
upon were conditional upon similar measures being adopted at 
Macao — a condition that led to the conclusion of the first treaty 
between China and Portugal (1887). 

Status of Macao. — In spite of their occupation of Macao 
since 1537, the Portuguese had no treaty with China before 1887. 
In Chinese records, Portugal was a tributary state of China and 
their presence at Macao was a matter of goodwill on the part of 
the Chinese Emperor. An annual rental of Tls. 500 was paid by 
Portugal and a Chinese Custom House maintained in Macao till 
1849. In the treaty of 1887, China for the first time recognized 
Portugal as an equal state and Macao as Portuguese soil. Before 
this time, Portugal had twice attempted to enter into treaty rela- 
tions with China ; but though treaties had been agreed to on both 
occasions they had never been ratified. One reason that prompted 
the Tsungli Yamen to grant the privilege on this occasion was the 
fear that Portugal might cede Macao to some other European 
power as it had been rumoured she was prepared to do during the 
French War. It was therefore stipulated in the first article of the 
treaty that without the consent of China, Macao could not be ceded. 
The treaty, however, did not attempt to settle the boundaries of 
Macao. It was signed at Peking by Prince Ching and Sun 
Yu-yung. 

Removal of the Peitang Cathedral. — By virtue of the 
Treaty of 1860, all old Roman Catholic possessions in China were 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 577 

to be restored through the French legation at Peking. One of 
the places thus restored was the site of the Peitang Cathedral 
given to the R. C. Church by the Emperor K'ang Hsi. The 
Cathedral stood on an eminence overlooking the Imperial Palace, 
and the close proximity of such a building more than 80 feet high 
so wounded the sensibilities of the Chinese Court that for years 
the Tsungli Yamen tried to persuade the French Minister to accept 
a less objectionable site in exchange, but to no avail. The French 
war afforded the Chinese Government an opportunity to approach 
Rome direct on the subject. Li Hung-chang accordingly, under 
verbal instructions from the Empress Dowager, sent an envoy to 
the Pope. Negotiations progresssed so satisfactorily that, by the 
summer of 1886, an agreement was signed at Tientsin between the 
Bishop of Peking and Mr. Detring, Commissioner of Customs, 
providing for its removal. The Chinese Government agreed to 
pay Tls. 350,000 for the Cathedral and its equipment, including 
a large organ and a museum, and to find a site at Sishihku in 
exchange. In spite of the protest of the French Government, the 
agreement was ratified by the Pope's Foreign Secretary. The 
Empress Dowager showed her appreciation by conferring on the 
foreigners who had taken part in the negotiations the order of the 
Double Dragon — an order established since 1881 for the decoration 
of foreigners. Owing to the objections of France, China failed to 
obtain a permanent legation from the Pope to control the whole 
body of Catholic priests in China, but succeeded in her request that 
other European countries withdraw their Catholic citizens from 
French consular jurisdiction. 



578 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER LX 
THE PERIOD OF THE CHINO JAPANESE WAR (1887-1895) 

1. Events in China Preceding the War 
Extension of the Regency. — Soon after the Franco-Chinese 
War, the Empress Tz'ii Hsi found herself confronted by a prece- 
dent which seemed to demand her retirement at an early date. 
As her first regency had terminated in the thirteenth year of the 
reign of T'ung Chih, she made known in 1886 her desire to hand 
over to the Emperor Knang Hsu the reins of government after a 
similar period as regent. Her ministers, however, were not ready 
for the proposed change. They agreed that the precedent must 
not be ignored; and nrged the Empress to retain her power. They 




I HO YUAN 



finally prevailed npon her " to continue to instruct the Emperor 
in the administration of government for a few more years." Thus 
the Empress remained the ruler of China till 1889; when, after 
having selected a wife for the Emperor, she retired to enjoy her 
well-earned rest in the I Ho Summer Palace (K 5ffl U). 



OUTLINES OV CHINESE HISTORY 579 

Marriage of the Emperor Kuang Hsu. — By 1889 the 
Emperor Kuang Hsu had reached his eighteenth year. The girl 
whom his aunt had selected to be his consort belonged to the 
famous Yehonala (M $fr M $4) clan. Her father, Kuei Hsiang (^ P), 
a Manchu general and brother of the Empress Tz'u Hsi, was, 
according to Manchu custom, immediately created a duke; and the 
occasion of the imperial marriage was celebrated with fitting cere- 
monies, which were said to cost a million sterling. 

Kuang Hsu's First Reception of Foreigners.— In contrast 
with the precedent of 1873,* the Emperor Kuang Hsii did not hold 
his first reception of foreigners till 1891, when six ministers and 
four charge d'affaires and their suits were admitted to audience in 
the Tzu Kuang Ko (i3ti). The Emperor made a very favor- 
able impression on those who had the privilege of seeing him. 
The following description of His Majesty is worthy of repro- 
duction here : 

"Whatever impression the 'Barbarians' made on him, the 
idea which they carried away of the Emperor Kuang Hsii was 
pleasing and almost pathetic. His air is one of exceeding intelli- 
gence and gentleness, somewhat frightened and melancholy look- 
ing. His face is pale, and though it is distinguished by refine- 
ment and quiet dignity, it has none of the force of his martial 
ancestors, nothing commanding or imperial ; but is altogether 
mild, delicate, sad, and kind. He is essentially Manchu in 
features, his skin is strangely pallid in hue, which is no doubt 
accounted for by the confinement of his life inside these forbidden 
walls and absence of the ordinary pleasures and pursuits of youth, 
with the constant discharge of onerous, complicated and difficult 

duties of state, which are mostly transacted between the hours 

of two and six in the morning. His face is oval-shaped with a 
very long narrow chin and a sensitive mouth with thin nervous 
lips; his nose is well shaped and straight, his eyebrows regular 
and very much arched, while the eves are unusuallv large and 



*The year in which T'ung Chili received foreign Ministei 



580 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

sorrowful in expression. The forehead is well shaped and broad, 
and the head is large beyond the average." 

Resignation of Captain Lang.— In 1890 there occurred an 
event, which, though unimportant as it seemed at the time, had 
much to do with the defeat of China by Japan. That event was 
the resignation of Captain Lang (JKgiJJHF), who had been loaned 
by the British naval authorities to the Chinese Government, and 
who, with Admiral Ting (T&l), had organized a respectable 
Chinese navy. He maintained strict discipline throughout the 
fleet, taking care to avoid the question as to who was in supreme 
command. But during the temporary absence of Admiral Ting, 
the Chinese second in command raised the question of seniority, 
which was finally decided by Ei Hung-chang against the foreigner. 
The result was that Captain Lang resigned his position and left 
China never to return. Had he remained in command, it is 
impossible to think that the Chinese fleet would have been com- 
pletely destroyed by the Japanese. 

Death of Prince Shun and Other Enlightened States- 
men. — In the first days of 1891, the Chinese navy suffered a further 
loss through the death of Prince Shun, who like his son was a 
friend of reform . Although he had been in poor health for some- 
time, his death was premature. Some of the ministers wished to 
confer upon the Prince a posthumous imperial title, but the 
Express Tz'u Hsi opposed that plan. She gave him the title of 
u Imperial Father to whom was born an Bmperor " ( Ik # # £ 2£) , 
in order to distinguish him from the Bmperor Hsien Feng into 
whose house Kuang Hsu had been adopted. Under the Chinese 
law, sacrifices were offered to the spirit of the Prince on the scale 
of an Emperor (f£ & ^^ Z St). About this time death deprived 
China of many of her distinguished statesmen, among whom were 
Marquis Ts'eng and his uncle, Ts'eng Kuo-ch'uan, then Viceroy 
at Nanking. Marquis Ts'eng had been the chosen colleague of 
Prince Shun in the Board of Admiralty, and his death occurred 
at a time when his diplomatic experience and knowledge might 
have proved of immense value to his young sovereign. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 581 

After the death of Prince Shun, the Chinese navy was neg- 
lected, its funds were applied to other things, and the Board of 
Admiralty, which had promised to be a standing monument to 
Prince Shun, was soon abolished. 

Period of Reaction. — During the few years just after the war 
with France, China had shown some signs of an awakening. 
Telegraph lines, a necessity most keenly felt at the time of the 
Kulja complication, had been extended to the Yunnan border in 
the southwest, and to the Szechuan and Kansu border in the west. 
If the Peking Government had failed to appreciate the economic 
value of railways, she had at least seen their strategic importance. 
Work had been begun on the line which was to connect Tientsin 
and Kirin ; and the young Emperor was ready to give every 
support to the proposal of Chang Chih-tung to build a trunk line 
between Peking and Hankow. But the death of Prince Shun 
and the other enlightened statesmen marked the beginning of a 
reaction. Men who viewed foreign influences and improvements 
with distrust and jealousy gradually rose into power. Anti- 
foreign feeling reached a high pitch in the Yangtze basin and 
gave birth to occasional riots in cities along both banks of the 
great river. For a time it looked as if no foreign life was safe 
in China, and no faith could be placed on the assurances of the 
Tsungli Yamen. Such was the state of affairs just before the 
outbreak of war with Japan over the Corean question. 

2. Events in Corea Preceding the War 

A Sketch of Corean History. — Since the Han Dynasty, 
the Corean peninsular had been a field of enterprise for both 
Chinese and Japanese. Towards the close of the sixteenth 
century, the peninsular suffered considerably from a formidable 
Japanese invasion, and for two centuries afterwards the Corean 
King purchased peace by sending tribute to both Peking and 
Yeddo (Mm). After a time, the Shogun ( # fi itfr Z * M ¥), 
tired of the expense involved in entertaining the Corean embassy, 
instructed the king to stop sending tribute. The loyalty of 



582 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Corea to the court at Peking, however, grew as time went on. 
The King of Corea consented to receive the title under which he 
reigned and his calendar from Peking, — a mark of vassalage — and 
to meet the Chinese Ambassador outside of Seoul in the midst 
of an imposing ceremony. He could not forget the years 1627 
and 1637;* nor the fact that Corea owed her literature and 
civilization to the Great Country, or Ta Kuo ($l HI), as China was 
known to the Coreans. 

In spite of this vassalage, Corea remained a land closed to all 
foreigners, the Chinese not excepted. At regular intervals a fair 
was held in some frontier town where Chinese and Coreans met 
for the exchange of goods; but after the fair any Chinese, or 
Ma n ch u, found within Corean territory was liable to be put to 
death. Foreign sailors cast ashore by shipwreck were either 
murdered, or kept in strict confinement; and missionaries 
entering the land in disguise met with determined opposition 
wherever they went. Both France and the United States had 
occasion to use force against Corea, but both failed to open the 
country to foreign trade. This strange isolation earned for Corea 
the name of " the Hermit Kingdom." 

After the Restoration of 1868, Japan began to regret the 
action of her Sliogun. She invited Corea to return to her 
nominal vassalage; but the latter, or rather her regent, Ta- 
yuan-kung (^c $£ %) , would have nothing to do with a nation 
which, in his opinion, had become so degenerated as to be willing 
to learn things from the West. In 1875, that is the year after the 
return of the Japanese expedition from Formosa, Corea completed 
the rupture by firing upon a Japanese gunboat. Japan responded 
with a great display of ships and men near Seoul and succeeded 
in opening "the Hermit Kingdom" to foreign trade. Following 
in her wake. America, England, and other countries also made 
commercial treaties with Corea ; and in making all these 
agreements the country was treated as an independent state. 



* Years of Manchu invasions of Corea. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 583 

When China discovered her mistake in allowing her vassal to 
make treaties with the outside world, she began to concern 
herself with the internal affairs of Corea. The strip of neutral 
territory between that country and Manchuria was annexed to 
China; and, till 1894, the Chinese resident at Seoul was the real 
power in Corea. 

Complication of 1882.— The first complication that threat- 
ened the peace of the three countries occurred in 1882. Two 
opposing factions had come into existence in Corea. The 
Progressive party, which . was pro-Japanese in its views, had 
Kim Ok Kium (•&■ 3£ *tr) for its leader; while the Conservative, or 
pro-Chinese party, was led by the ex-regent, Ta-yuan-kung, who 
was closely leagued with the Miu (^) party, or friends of the 
Corean Empress, who were in power. They killed a number of 
Japanese in the capital and attacked and burned the Japanese 
Legation. The Japanese minister and his surviving nationals had 
to fight their way through the streets until they found shelter on 
board a British gunboat. Japan decided to take strong measures 
to avenge the outrage, but found Seoul in the hands of Chinese 
troops and the harbour guarded by Chinese men-of-war. She had 
consequently to content herself with an apology and an indemnity 
from Corea, and the privilege of maintaining a legation guard at 
Seoul. Because of the presence of Japanese soldiers, a body of 
Chinese troops was also stationed in the Corean capital, and Ta- 
yuan-kung was conveyed into China, where he was detained for 
several years. 

Convention of Tientsin. — The peace thus patched up was 
not destined to. last long. In December 1884, a revolution broke 
out in Seoul, and Prince Min and other Conservative ministers 
were assassinated. With the aid of the Japanese, the revolution- 
ists took possession of the palace, the Corean king fleeing to the 
Chinese Legation. The scenes of 1882 were then repeated on a 
larger scale. The Japanese Legation was attacked and burned by 
Corean mobs aided by the Chinese; and the Japanese minister 
and soldiers were obliged to fight their way from Seoul to the sea. 



584 OUTLINES OF -CHINESE HISTORY 

From Corea, Japan secured another indemnity ; and from China, 
the Convention of Tientsin,* the most important provision of 
which was that neither country was to send an armed force into 
Corea without informing the other. Kim Ok Kium, the leader of 
the revolution, became a fugitive in Japan until he was decoyed to 
Shanghai and murdered. His remains were taken to Corea on 
board a Chinese man-of-war and quartered. 

The Tong Hoks. — Owing to the spread of Catholicism, a new 
religious sect came into existence in Corea as early as 1859. It 
arose in the same manner as the Taiping sect of China. In the 
course of an illness a Corean had visions and claimed to have 
received a new doctrine, which was in fact a combination of 
Catholicism with Confucianism, Taoism and Buddhism, the Three 
Religions of the Chinese. He styled it Tong Hok (3C^) (Eastern 
Doctrine) to distinguish it from Catholicism, the Western Doctrine, 
which was in great disfavor with the government. As misgovern- 
ment and oppression increased, the sect soon took on a political 
character; and by 1894, the Tong Hoks had formed bands of 
several thousands that openly defied the authority of the govern- 
ment. The movement was strongest in South Corea, or more 
particularly in the province of Chollo (^1). All the government 
forces having proved insufficient to restore order, Corea, upon the 
fall of the provincial capital of Chollo, appealed to her suzerain for 
help. China responded with two thousand soldiers and a few men- 
of-war; but Japan, enraged by the murder of Kim Ok Kium, took 
advantage of the Tientsin convention and also began to throw troops 
into the peninsular. By the middle of June, the Japanese not only 
had a superior force in Corea; but also had control of Seoul, while 
the Chinese were holding a town to the south of the capital. The 
rebellion of the Tong Hoks was heard of no more. The question of 
the day was which of the two powers should withdraw her troops 
first. Twice before had diplomacy succeeded in preventing China 



* Signed at Tientsin by Count Ito and Li Hung-chang. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 585 

and Japan from going to war; but this time there was no such 
happy issue. Japan, prepared as she was for war, insisted on a 
complete reorganization of the Corean government; but China, 
without being ready to fight, would not agree to such a plan. It 
was Japan's thorough preparation that counted in the coming- 
struggle. 

3. Events of the War 

Sinking of the Kowshing. — The first hostile act was com- 
mitted by Japan before war was declared. On July 23, 1894, three 
of the fastest cruisers of the Japanese navy were sent out from 
Sasebo with instructions to intercept any additional troops China 
might send to Corea. In the absence of railways, they knew that 
China was dependent upon the sea route. Two days later, they 
encountered two Chinese men-of-war, the Chiyiian CM 3§t) and the 
Kuangyi (Ji &), near the Phong (H H) Islands, and a battle ensued. 
It was an unequal light, for each of the three ships was more than a 
match for the Chinese. The Kuangyi was crippled and beached; 
and the Chiyiian, riddled with shot, was run into Weihaiwei. In 
another hour, the Kowshing, a transport which the Chiyiian and the 
Kuangyi had come to convoy, was sighted. She was ordered by 
the Naniwa (jlf 0) to follow her, but the Chinese soldiers on board 
the steamer prevented the captain from complying with the Japanese 
order. She was then fired upon and sunk; and out of 1,200 
officers and men, the flower of the Peiyang Army which was to take 
part in the Corean campaign under an able German officer, Von 
Hannekon (W/ffl$L), only 170 were saved. The Kowshing was at 
the time under the protection of the British flag. The question of 
damages was not settled for several years, but in the end China had 
to pay the money. 

The Korean Campaign. — The plan of the Chinese was to 
attack the Japanese simultaneously from the north and the south. 
With this end in view, a Chinese army was being hurried into 
Pyengyang (^31), north of Seoul, and the Kowshing had been 
chartered to take reinforcements to Yashan (^ ill). Two days after 



586 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

her sinking, the Japanese from Seoul appeared before Yashain. 
When they made a night attack and drove the Chinese out of their 
position at Chenhwan ($ ft), General Yeh Chih-ch'ao (Hi£tg) 
evacuated the city of Yashan, leaving large quantities of stores and 
ammunition in the hands of the enemy. The Japanese engaged in 
this encounter numbered 2,500. Their loss was 6 officers and 82 
men; while the Chinese, according to their account, lost 500. By 
August 5, the Japanese were back in Seoul with all sorts of spoils to 
dazzle the eyes of the Coreans. Having removed the first danger 
which threatened their lines of communication, the Japanese busied 
themselves during the next six weeks in landing more troops at 
Chemulpo, Gensan, and Fusan. 

Meanwhile the Chinese had built 27 forts at Pyengyang, a 
place easily defended because protected by a river and surrounded 
by hills. In a word it was the key to all operations in North Corea. 
In spite of this splendid position and the 13,000 men he had, General 
Y r eh Chih-clrao made no better stand at Pyengyang than at Y r ashan. 
The truth is he retired as soon as the enemy appeared, and his 
example was followed by the second in command, General Wei Ju- 
kuei CM fk M), thus leaving General Tso Pao-kuei (£ % ft) with a 
reduced force to hold the place against the Japanese, who advanced 
in four detachments from as many directions. General Tso fought 
most bravely and desperately until he fell at the head of his men. 
With his death the capture of Pyengyang was complete, and had 
cost the Japanese only 350 officers and men. The Chinese had 2,000 
killed, most of them in their flight, and 600 were taken prisoners. 
General Y r eh became so demoralized that he did not think of making 
any further stand until he had crossed the Yalu River. The battle 
of Pyengyang (Sept. 15) was the last of the war that was fought 
in Corea, and that country was now permanently lost to China. 
So far the disasters were largely due to the cowardice of Yeh Chih- 
ch'ao. 

The Naval Battle of the Yalu.— The battle cry of Pyeng- 
yang had hardly died out, when the hostile fleets met off the island 
of Haiyang (WW), half way between Tatungkou (;*c "M ?t) and Port 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 587 

Arthur. Admiral Ting had been sent with his entire fleet to convoy 
transports to the Yalu ; and it was on his return that he encountered 
the Japanese fleet under Admiral Ito CM 8$), who had been employed 
on the same business at Chemulpo. There were twelve vessels on 
each side, the advantage of heavy armour and guns being with the 
Chinese ; but in quickfiring guns, speed and tonnage, the Japanese 
were superior. The Chinese ships were formed into a single line 
with the two iron-clads, Ting Yiian (J£ 3!) and Chen Yuan ($|*t), 
in the centre ; while the Japanese steamed in a single column, and by 
their superior speed were able to circle around their adversary and 
pour their deadly fire upon the weaker vessels that formed the 
wings. The battle lasted five hours, during which four of the 
Chinese cruisers were singled out and sunk one after another. The 
fiercest fighting of the day occurred between the two Chinese iron- 
clads and the main Japanese squadron of five ships. Admiral 
Ting's flagship, the Ting Yiian, was once in flames but her sister 
ship, the Chen Yiian, came to her rescue and remained with her. It 
was their stubborn resistance that saved the rest of the Chinese fleet 
from destruction. A single shell from the Chen Yiian disabled a 
13 inch gun on the Japanese flagship, the Matsushima, set her 011 
fire, and killed and wounded eighty of her crew. Had the iron- 
clads been provided with shells instead of shot they might have 
done more damage to the "Japanese, who lost no ships, though three 
of their weakest vessels barely escaped destruction. Towards 
evening when the battle was over the shattered Peiyang fleet crept 
into Port Arthur. For this defeat the Chinese blamed Captain 
Fang (Jj fGft), of the Chiyiian, and had him forthwith decapitated. 
Invasion of China. — With the Peiyang fleet crippled, Japan 
had control of the sea ; and in addition to pushing her army across 
the Corean frontier, she could now land troops on the coast of China. 
On October 24, 1894, the day the first Japanese army crossed the 
Yalu, their second one landed at Hua Yiian Kang (# H isi), the 
principal objective point being Port Arthur, one of the two for- 
tresses that guarded the port of Taku. Port Arthur had been 
fortified by German and French experts and was considered 



588 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE H1S10RY 



impregnable ; but its defenders, the trained troops of General Sung 
Ch'ing ($tc IE), had been sent into Manchuria and their places taken 
by raw recruits under inexperienced officers. Having captured 
Chinch ow (± 'M) and Talien (sfcai), the whole of the second army 
appeared before Port Arthur, and the fortress was taken in one 
day with very little resistance. Its fall gave the enemy a naval 
base at our door with the best dockyard in the East. It is es- 
timated that the machinery, docks, etc., that fell into their hands 
represented a value of 60 million yen. The Japanese celebrated 
their victory by massacring the Chinese inhabitants of Port 
Arthur. At the time of its capture, the remainder of Admiral 
Ting's fleet was in Weihaiwei. 

While the second army was taking city after city on the 
promontory, the Japanese in Manchuria were not idle. They put 
General Sung Ch'ing to flight at Chiuliench'eng {% £§ $) and 
Fenghuangch'eng (EM$), the two important border cities on 




The famous narrow entrance to Port Arthur 
("Manchuand Muscovite") 

the opposite sides of the former neutral strip of land between 
Manchuria and Corea. At Fenghuangch'eng, the Japanese separat- 
ed into two divisions; one went north clearing the roads and keep- 
ing in touch with the Chinese at Liaoyang, and the other moved 
westward and held Hsiuyen. Later they marched farther west and 
took Haich'eng (?&$), where the first army subsequently effected 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 580 

a junction with the second army. As Haich'eng commanded 
the roads both to Mukden and Peking, Japan had control of 
Manchuria. In the winter Generals Sung Ch'ing and Eketango 
(fl* ^ Jg l&I) made several attempts to dislodge the enemy from 
Haich'eng and other places but failed. Kaiping (M ¥) was taken 
by the second army in the spring. 

The First Peace Proposals. — The failure of China in 
warfare had brought Prince Kung into power, and by his wise 
council she asked for peace. Two days before the fall of Port 
Arthur, Japan signified through the American Minister at Peking, 
who had been in charge of Japanese interests since the commence- 
ment of the war, her willingness to listen to proposals of peace. 
Chang Yin-huan ($gHM) and Shao Yu-lien (g|S fo $|) accordingly 
sailed for Japan, but on their arrival they were promptly dismissed 
on the ground that they did not have "full powers." As a 
consequence, the war continued. 

Fall of Weihaiwei. — The next event of importance was the 
fall of Weihaiwei, a place well defended by modern forts against 
attacks by land and by sea. Like Port Arthur, this fortress had 
cost China millions of dollars ; and like the former it was easily 
taken by the enemy, although in addition to the 10,000 men who 
manned the forts there were nine warships, six small gunboats, 
and eleven destroyers in the harbour. The soldiers in their 
hurry to vacate the forts even left their guns intact, and had it 
not been for the storm which gave Admiral Ting time to land 
sailors to destroy them, they might have been turned upon the 
Chinese fleet. For a time torpedo booms, stretched across the 
harbor, afforded ample protection to the Chinese fleet, for they 
prevented the larger Japanese ships from coining within striking 
distance. By torpedo attacks, however, the enemy succeeded in 
sinking four more ships, including the Ting Yiian. When 
further resistance was considered useless, Admiral Ting surren- 
dered the remainder of his ships and the forts. Having been 
deprived of all rank and titles and ordered into the hands of the 
Board of Punishment at Peking, the poor admiral knew what fate 



590 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

was awaiting him. Immediately after the capitulation, he and 
several of his officers committed suicide. It is estimated that the 
four men-of-war and six gunboats surrendered to the Japanese 
were worth 30,000,000 Yen. The destroyers had already been 
captured in an attempt to escape from the doomed port. 

Defeat of Governor Wu Ta-cheng. — During the Weihaiwei 
campaign the Japanese forces in Manchuria gained further 
successes. By a single blow at the old port of Newchwang, they 
vanquished the army of Wu Ta-cheng, who had been sent to the 
front at his own request. The gallantry of this patriot consisted 
of a single document in which he not only boasted of his ability 
to defeat the Japanese, but also invited them to submit. He was 
soon sent home in disgrace. 

Peace of Shimonoseki. — There was now nothing to prevent 
the Japanese from marching on to Mukden, or even to Peking. At 
this critical moment, the Court at Peking turned once more for help 
and advice to Li Hung-chang, a man who had been made a target 
of criticism since the commencement of hostilities and deprived of 
all his decorations earned by many a battle and long years of service. 
Restored to rank and dignity and clothed with suitable credentials, 
he landed at Shimonoseki and at once began negotiations. While 
the negotiations were still in progress he received a wound below his 
left eye at the hands of a Japanese fanatic. It was this affair that 
induced the Japanese government to grant an immediate cessation of 
hostilities, which was made permanent by the treaty signed on April 
17, 1895. The most important provisions of the treaty were: — 

1. Absolute independence of Corea. 

2. Cession of the Liaotnng Promotory and the adjacent 
islands, the island of Formosa, and the Pescadore Group 
to Japan. 

3. Payment of a war indemnity of Tls. 200,000,000 to 
Japan in six yearly instalments. 

4. The opening of Shasi ($> Tfr) in Hupeh, Chungking (MM) 
in Szechuan, Soochow (H M) in Kiangsu, and Hangchow 
(ttW) in Chekiang as treaty ports. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY rm 

Foreign Intervention. — China had lime and again asked 
Europe and America to intervene in her behalf, but without avail. 
The signing of the Shimonoseki Treaty, however, brought several 
of the European powers upon die scene. Russia had for years been 
looking for an ice- free port for the eastern terminus of her great 
trans-continental railway, and naturally objected to Japan's holding 
the Liaotung Promontory, /'She had twenty-three warships in Chinese 
waters, and they were at once cleared for action. She told Japan to 
return the territory in question to China and in this was backed up 
by Germany and France. The result was that Japan accepted a 
further sum of thirty million taels in lieu of a territory which was 
already in her possession before the treaty was signed. Japan con- 
cealed her resentment admirably at the time; but it was a factor 
with which Russia had to reckon at no distant date. 

For her services, Russia obtained the right to extend her railway 
through Manchuria and build branch lines to Mukden and Port 
Arthur. In the same year (1895), France had the Mekong question 
settled and obtained the right to continue her Tonquin railway to 
Xanningfu (^ ^ /ff) in Kuangsi. China felt so grateful to Russia 
that she sent Li Hung-chang to attend the coronation of the Czar 
in 1896. 

Revolt in Formosa. — When the cession of Formosa became 
known, the people of the island revolted, proclaimed a republic, and 
elected the acting governor, Tang Ching-sung (}MM:W, president. 
Japan had occupied but one of the Pescadore Islands, but was deter- 
mined that she should not lose Formosa, in addition to the Liaotung 
Peninsula. An army promptly sailed from Japan; and upon its 
landing the Formosan Republic melted away and its president fled to 
China. Gen. Liu Yung-fu next became president in Tainan: but 
ere long Formosa and the Pescadores yielded to their new masters. 

Causes and Eflects of China's Defeat.— Of all Chinas 
foreign wars, the one with Japan had the most disastrous effects. It 
swept away her equipment as a military power; reduced her prestige 
to the lowest ebb ; revealed her weakness to the world ; and burdened 
her for the first time with a foreign debt of £50,000,000. When 



592 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Admiral Ito wrote to Admiral Ting asking him to capitulate he 
was able to say, "it is not the fault of one man." Again he remark- 
ed in the same letter: "The blame must rest upon the errors of a 
government that has long administered affairs. She selects her 
servants by competitive examination and literary attainments are the 
test. The result is that the officials through whom the government 
is administered are all literati, and literature is honored above every- 
thing." Indeed, one might go a step further and say that the blame 
also rested upon the system of philosophy which taught every Chinese 
to love his family instead of his nation. For this teaching China has 
but the Sung philosophers and their adherents to blame. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 593 

CHAPTER LXI 

THE PERIOD OF UNRESTRAINED FOREIGN 

AGGRESSION (1895-1899) 

China had come out of her struggle with Japan deeply 
humiliated. She stood before the world the picture of a giant 
that could not fight. European powers, eager for land, busied 
themselves with schemes for the division of her territory. By 
force, or by diplomacy, they secured, or tried to secure, a foothold 
on Chinese soil, so as to be prepared for future events. Their 
threatening attitude naturally frightened the Chinese, and lent 
strength and energy to the new forces that had been gradually, 
but steadily, gaining ground in China. But, as usual, the 
^reaction came and the movement was suppressed. Such were a 
few of the characteristics of the period between the Japanese War 
and the Boxer Uprising of 1900. 

Anti-Missionary Riots. — After the close of the Japanese 
War, there was a marked increase of anti-foreign agitation in 
China, especially among the uneducated masses. Secret societies, 
too, showed signs of renewed activity in many places. In 1895, a 
number of English missionaries and their wives and children were 
massacred at Huashan (ip ill), a summer resort in Kut'ien ("£ E9), 
Fukien (M M) . In the same year, mission property in Ch'engtu 
(Jfc U) was destroyed by mobs and soldiers, and the Viceroy of 
Szechuan had to be sent home in disgrace. In other places there 
were other troubles of similar nature. In November, 1897, a new 
case was added to the long list. In Shantung two more mission- 
aries lost their lives, and the world was startled at the outcome of 
the whole matter. 

Seizure of Kiaochow by Germany.— Unfortunately for 
China, the victims in the Shantung case were subjects of Germany 
— a nation that had long insisted on receiving compensation in 
connection with the retrocession of Liaotung. As China had 
failed to discharge her obligation, Germany now helped herself. 



594 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

To the ambitious Kaiser, the murder of his subjects was a godsend. 
Seizing this opportunity, Germany landed a battalion of marines 
at Kiaochow (0jM1), hoisted her flag, and ordered the Chinese 
garrisons to retire. When the matter came up for discussion at 
Peking, the Tsungli Yamen found that neither the payment of an 
indemnity, nor the dismissal of responsible officials, — methods 
which had been successfully employed on more than one occa- 
sion, — would settle matters. Kiaochow had to be leased to Ger- 
many for ninety-nine years, and she was given the right to 
build fortifications and docks, to land and station soldiers, and to 
control railways and mines in the whole of the Shantung 
Province. Thus by the death of two German missionaries, 
Kiaochow, whose strategic importance as a harbour had been 
made known to China, through one of her ministers abroad, as 
early as 1884, was lost. The game of "land-grabbing" was now 
the order of the day. 

Lease of Port Arthur to Russia. — The next move on the 
board was made by Russia. As soon as the agreement with 
Germany was signed, Russia had a demand of her own to make. 
She had promised to protect China in the Cassini Convention, 
but had been appealed to in vain to help China resist the demands 
of Germany. The Czar had been displeased with the outcome of 
the German negotiations; and, to protect his interests, he 
required the lease of Port Arthur, Talienwan, and a strip of 
adjoining land. China was of course too weak to resist ; and the 
territory, of which Japan had been deprived, fell into the hands 
of Russia. The indignation of Japan may be imagined, but she 
was not ready to fight. 

Weihaiwei Leased to Great Britain and Kuangchowwan 
to France. — Great Britain, whose ships had been ordered out of 
Port Arthur by the Russians in the preceding winter, next came 
in for her share. In the South, she compelled China to lease to 
her four hundred square miles of land and water including a part 
of the mainland opposite Hongkong ; and in the North she was 
to hold Weihaiwei as lon£ as Port Arthur remained in the hands 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 595 

of the Russians. France, following the example of her sister 
states, secured the lease of Knangchowwan, opposite the Island 
of Hainan, for a period of ninety-nine years. 

"Spheres of Influence." — In addition to the policy of 
u land-grabbing," the foreign powers resorted to another scheme 
less drastic than the actual partition of China. We have seen 
that the lease of Kiaochow carried with it railway and mining 
rights in Shantung. In the two southern provinces of Yunnan 
and Knangsi, France had previously secured similar privileges. 
Japan was not fully recognized as a first-class power; but she 
prevailed on China to promise her special favors in the province 
of Fukien. Both Russia and Great Britain sought to gain their 
ends in China by a convention.' Accordingly in 1896, it was 
agreed that Russia was to receive all railway concessions north of 
the Great Wall, while Great Britain was to have those in the 
Yangtze Valley, which included the provinces of Chekiang and 
Honan. The Shanhaikuan-Newchwang line, which had already 
been granted to a British Banking Corporation, was made an 
exception. Great Britain also secured a promise from China that 
she would not surrender any part of the Yangtze Valley to any 
other foreign power. / In this way, each power had a part of China 
earmarked for exploitation; and the parts so marked were called, 
in the diplomatic language of the day, " spheres of influence." 

The northern section of the great trunk line which was to 
connect Peking and Canton was granted to a Belgian syndicate ; 
but the southern section from Hankow southward went to an 
American corporation. In a similar manner was the Tientsin- 
Chinkiang line divided, so far as the construction and operation 
were concerned. The sphere of German interests was defined as 
the region watered by the affluents of the Huang Ho; and the 
English sphere as that watered by those of the Yangtze. 

Up to 1900, the following railways were in operation in 
China: — 

(1) The Peking-Tientsin line which had been extended to 
Shanhaikuan and Newchwangf. 



596 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

(2) The Lu-Han line from Peking to Tingchow, south of 
of Paotingfu. There was also considerable work done at the 
southern terminus near Hankow. 

(3) A short line from Shanghai to Wusung on the Yangtze. 

(4) A line of sixty miles, for the transportation of ore, 
extending from the large iron-works in the neighborhood of 
Hankow. 

The Inspector-General of Customs.— In order to forestall 
any attempt Russia might make, Great Britain secured in 1898 a 
promise from the Tsungli Yamen that the management of the 
Chinese customs service should remain in the hands of an 
Englishman. The excuse for this step was found in the fact 
that British trade was the largest. Since 1896. the Inspector- 
General of Customs has also been in charge of the postal ad- 
ministration of China. Some minor concessions were made at 
about the same time, such as the opening of more ports and of 
the whole of the inland waterways to steam navigation. 

Italy Demands the Samun Bay.— Having contracted the 
contagion of "land-grabbing," Italy presented in 1899 a demand of 
her own. The place she selected was the Samun Bay on the coast 
of Chekiang. But the Empress Dowager had returned to power and 
she not only met the request with a blank refusal, but also -sent 
orders to the provincial authorities to resist by force any attempt 
Italy might make to land troops. For having given this offence to 
the Imperial Government, the Italian minister was recalled ; but his 
successor met wi;h no better success. 

" Open Door" Policy. — In j 899, both Russia and Germany 
threw open their leased territories to foreign commerce. Availing 
himself of this opportunity, John Hay, Secretary of State of the 
United States, addressed a circular note to the European powers and 
Japan, proposing a policy which had for its object the maintenance 
of China's integrity and the assurance of equal rights to all. This 
is generally spoken of as the " Open Door " policy. The fact is 
that by their retention of the Philippine Islands after the successful 
termination of their war with Spain, the United States had to take 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 597 

more interest in Asiatic questions. The British Government, in 
reply to the American note, pledged herself to support this policy; 
but the replies from other governments were more guarded., though 
they were considered satisfactory in Washington. It is claimed that 
the "open door" policy put a stop to further " spheres of influence. " 

The Reform Movement. — If the Japanese War helped to 
revive the anti-foreign agitation, it also helped to revive the reform 
movement in China. The result of the war was so glaring that 
thoughtful Chinese could not help recognizing wherein lay the hope, 
and the only hope, of China. It was about this time that Chang 
Chih-tung wrote his famous book entitled " China's Only Hope." 
Foreign concessions and spheres of influence all tended to confirm 
the Chinese in the belief that there was only one proper course open 
to them ; and, as a consequence, Western knowledge was most eagerly 
sought. The people, for the first time, began to look forward 
instead of backward. They knew that something more than material 
reforms was needed. There was a large demand for the translations 
of scientific books prepared by the missionary societies; and there 
was an ever-increasing attendance at their schools where English and 
the sciences were taught. Newspapers, too, began to exert a large 
influence, although most of them were still registered in the names 
of foreigners. 

Reform Edicts of the Emperor Kuang Hsii. — The strongest 
supporter of the reform movement was the Emperor Kuang Hsii. 
Freed temporarily from the circumstances that had kept him a 
figurehead, he began to give vent to his progressive ideas in the 
summer of 1898; and issued edict after edict making sweeping 
changes in the old regime. In fact there were more changes ordered 
than were carried out. The most important ones were : — 

(1) The modification of the examination system so as to 
include questions on history, political economy, and scientific knowl- 
edge. 

(2) The establishment of public schools throughout the 
Empire, and the conversion of temples and monasteries into school 
buildings. 



598 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



(3) The abolition of many useless and superfluous offices both 
within and without the capital. 

(4) The complete reorganization of the military system. 
Most of these edicts may be traced to the pens of a number of 

young men whom the Emperor had raised to responsible positions to 
the surprise and discomfiture of their enemies. The most famous 
of these reformers were Kang Yu-wei (M % £$) and Liang Chi-ch'ao 
(2& ^ IS), both natives of Kuangtung. While they and their friends 
were confident of success, a storm of reaction was rapidly gathering 
force. 

Restoration of the Empress Dowager to Power. — The 
centre of that storm was the I Ho Summer Palace, where the 




The Empress Dowager Tz'u Hsi 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 599 

Empress Dowager had been enjoying a life of pleasure. Owing to 
the intrigues of the different parties, the relations between her and 
the Emperor had not been very cordial ; and by the death of Kuang 
Hsu's mother, a sister of Tz'ii Hsi, the last tie of friendship between 
them had been severed. The Empress Dowager had the support of 
the army; and, in that hour of extreme excitement, she. carried away 
by the irresistible tide of reaction, returned into the Palace, seized 
once more the reins of government, and made the Emperor sign his 
own dethronement and instal her with the most imposing ceremony. 
This coup d'etat took place on September 22, 1898, just one hundred 
days after the first reform edict of Kuang Hsu had appeared. From 
that date till their deaths in 1908, China was once more ruled by a 
woman. The world was made to believe that the Emperor was 
very ill, and officials throughout the Empire were commanded to 
send the best physicians they knew to attend him. But the Emperor 
lived and their services were not required. 

On a charge of treason, six of the reformers of 1898 were 
summarily executed. Kang Yu-wei, their leader, however, escaped 
to Shanghai, and later to Hongkong. Until recently both he and 
Liang Chi-ch'ao were still at large living upon the hospitality of 
Chinese residents abroad. Many high officials, mostly Chinese, were 
either banished, or dismissed, for having shown sympathy with the 
reformers. 

The return of the Empress Dowager to power was followed by 
a period of unprecedented Manchu prominence. Yung Lu, then 
Viceroy of Chihli, became the most trusted adviser of the Throne and 
the most influential person in the Empire. He vacated his post at 
Tientsin, entered the Grand Council, and retained his command of 
the New Army — a privilege no Grand Councillor had ever before 
held. All the reforms inaugurated by the Emperor were rescinded 
by a stroke of the vermilion pen. Reform had to hide its head 
before the Empress Dowager. The reactionary party reaped a 
temporary triumph ; but it was one that was gained at tremendous 
cost in life and treasure. 



600 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



CHAPTER LXII 
THE BOXER UPRISING (1900-1901) 

The Boxers. — In the year 1900, China was involved in a war 
with the world through the crimes of bands of fanatics commonly 
known among foreigners as the Boxers. They called themselves I 
Ho Ch'iian (H 5fli #), Patriotic and Harmonious Fist, or Tuan (ffl), 
a character for union or volunteers. The latter name was not used 
until the Boxers had received official recognition from Peking, 
after which they proudly considered themselves volunteers in the 
service of the Government. The name, " Boxers," was derived 
from the character meaning fist. It was probably first used by 
certain missionaries in writing to foreign newspapers ; and, in the 
absence of a more appropriate term, was soon adopted all over the 
world. 

Origin and Practice of the Boxers. —Chinese state papers 
show that a society under the name of I Ho Ch'uan had existed in 
China since the days of Chia Ch'ing (il H). Like other secret 
societies it had existed under the ban of the law; and, like most of 
them, it had the province of Shantung for its cradle. Its members 
had to undergo an initiation which was supposed to make them 
invulnerable. At any rate, after the required period of initiation, 
they were little better than madmen ; and, singing incantations as 
they made their attacks, were absolutely regardless of danger. It 
was their wont to perform their experiments before admiring and 
credulous crowds; and when any of their number failed to make 
good his claims to invulnerability, the usual excuse was that the 
man in question had been deserted by the spirits. They indulged in 
dances and prostrations to evoke this divine protection ; and wor- 
shipped a variety of gods of Buddhist or Taoist origin. For 
weapons they used knives and spears. 

Revival of the Boxer Movement in Shantung.— Shan- 
tung was the province in which trouble would thrive. As we have 
seen, it experienced the horrors of a foreign invasion, and had its 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 601 

stronghold and finest bay leased to a foreign power. The land, 
which had given Confucius to China, was at last to be pierced through 
by railways. In addition to these things, there had been frequent 
inundations caused by the overflow of the Huang Ho, which had, 
since 1853, returned to its historic northern channel on its way to 
the sea. Consequently the people were much excited and terrified ; 
and, as they believed that the foreigners were solely responsible for all 
their troubles, they began to organize. At the outset they carried 
out their drills in mountain fastnesses, or in out-of-the-way villages. 
But this was no longer necessary during the regime of Governor Yu 
Hsien (UK), a Manchu. He was extremely anti-foreign and show- 
ed unmistakable sympathy with the movement which had for its 
object the ultimate expulsion of all foreigners from China. With 
official encouragement, the secret society suddenly took on the form 
of a patriotic movement, and gained daily in Strength and pop- 
ularity. Anti-Christian and anti-foreign riots became of frequent 
occurrence, and culminated in the murder of one Mr. Brooks, of 
the Church of England Mission, December 31, 1900. 

Spread of the Movement Beyond the Boundaries of 
Shantung. — Owing to foreign protest, the Peking Government 
found it necessary to recall Yu Hsien. His place in Shantung was 
given to Yuan Shih-k'ai (^ -ft III), a man of an entirely different 
type, who had been Chinese resident in Corea, and one of the four 
division commanders under Jung Lu ($k%k). He took his division 
of foreign drilled soldiers with him to Shantung, and made things so 
uncomfortable for the Boxers that they reluctantly left their home 
and migrated into the provinces of Chihli and Shansi. Had these 
provinces been ruled by men of Yuan Shih-k'ai's calibre the uprising- 
might have been nipped in the bud. 

Appointment of an Heir to the Throne. — Early in 1900 
the Chinese world was startled by a decree issued in the name of the 
Emperor Kuang Hsii. In this he declared, or was made to declare, 
that he was unfit physically to rule, and that with the consent of the 
Empress Dowager he had appointed Pu Tsun (f£ Ji), son of Prince 
Tuan (*fS 3E) , heir to the Throne, and had made him an adopted son 



602 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

of the Emperor T'ung Chili. On the Chinese New Year day, the 
newly appointed heir, a lad of sixteen, and a grandson of Prince Tun 
(1$ 3E), the fifth son of the Emperor Tao Kuang, officiated at the 
sacrifices to heaven ; and two Manchus, both pronounced enemies to 
reform, were appointed his tutors. The last vestige of power in 
the hands of the Emperor Kuang Hsu had now been taken away 
from him and it was freely rumoured that before long his death 
would be announced. Prince Tuan (ifg), the father of the Heir Ap- 
parent, became a most important factor in the politics of Peking; 
and nearly all the important positions were held by men of his views. 
They believed that the time had come for them to wipe out the 
humiliation that the foreigners had heaped upon their dynasty ; and 
thought that they could make good use of the Boxers who had 
faith in their divine mission and superhuman power to accomplish 
their end. Decrees began to appear in which organizations for the 
purpose of mutual help were commended, although acts of violence 
towards Christians, or foreigners, were deprecated. No one with 
any knowledge of the official language, or the trend of recent 
events, could fail to read between the lines. In March 1900, Yu 
Hsien was appointed Governor of Shansi. 

Arrival of Legation Guards at Peking. — Towards the end 
of May, the situation in North China was very critical. The de- 
struction by the Boxers of the Paotingfu Railway was the beginning 
of a general uprising, such as had never before been seen in China. 
Foreign ministers, who had hitherto contented themselves with 
conducting fruitless correspondence with the Tsungli Yamen, were at 
last awakened to their danger. By telegram they asked for guards 
to be sent from the foreign men-of-war assembled at Tientsin; and, 
in compliance with this request, 340 marines, consisting of American. 
British, French, Italian, Japanese and Russian contingents, arrived at 
Peking on the last day of the month. These were joined three 
days later by 50 Germans and 35 Australians. Even the presence 
of foreign troops in the capital did not improve matters. Placards 
were everywhere put up giving various dates when the Legations 
were to be attacked and the foreigners massacred. Mohammedan 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 603 

soldiers under General Tung Fu-hsiang ( It la i£), a most troublesome 
lot of men over whom Jung Lu was in supreme command, began 
to enter the city and openly fraternize with the Boxers, who could 
now boast of several princes and nobles in their ranks. When one 
of these, Prince Tuan, became President of the Tsungli Yamen, it 
was a notification that foreigners could expect no protection from 
that quarter. From the country south of Peking, reports of pillage, 
arson, and the massacre of native Christians, continued to arrive; 
while missionaries and foreign engineers had great difficulty in 
reaching either Peking" or Tientsin. 

The Seymour Expedition. — Upon a further appeal from the 
ministers some 2,000 additional foreign troops started from 
Tientsin. This force, made up of soldiers of eight different 
nationalities, was placed under the command of Vice-Admiral 
Seymour of the British Navy, and from him it received its name. 
The expedition went by train without any accident as far as 
Yangts'un (Hrfd*), where the best part of General Nieh's (i5) army 
was encamped. Between Yangts'un and Langfan the foreign 
soldiers had to fight the Boxers at every stage and to make the 
necessary repairs to the railway as they advanced. On the day 
following the taking of the Taku Forts, the government troops 
openly joined the Boxers in attacking the Seymour expedition ; 
and, in face of the stubborn resistance and the failure of provisions 
and ammunition, it was considered unadvisable to advance any 
farther. When they reached Yangts'un on their retreat, the 
allies found that the railway had been so damaged that they 
could not use it in returning to their base. Abandoning the 
trains, they marched along the bank of the Peiho and finally 
saved themselves from annihilation by the capture of the Hsi 
Ku (® 0.) Arsenal, a few miles from Tientsin. This place, with 
the provisions and ammunition stored there, afforded the re- 
treating party a defensible position until it was extricated by a 
relief column from Tientsin. When Admiral Seymour and his 
party reached Tientsin it was found that they had had 67 killed 
and 238 wounded. It was due to the large number of wounded 



604 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE IITSTORY 



with him that Admiral Seymour had been unable to force his way 
from Hsi Ku to Tientsin. 

Capture of the Taku Forts. — On June 16th the allied 
commanders at Taku demanded the surrender of the forts there. 
This step was considered necessary because a large number of 
foreign drilled troops had entered these forts and mines were 
being laid across the mouth of the Peiho. The Chinese 
commandant was given up to 2 o'clock the next morning to 
vacate but he refused to do so. At 1 o'clock he opened fire on 
the foreign gunboats and the fire was returned. After a bom- 
bardment of six hours, the forts were silenced, stormed and 
taken. The Americans took no part in the action, although the 
"Monocacy," their only ship present, with the foreign refugees 




Wall of Tientsin after bombardment. 

on board, was hit. Their admiral insisted that he could take no 
hostile action against a government with which his government 
was at peace. Four Chinese destroyers were captured near the 
Taku Dock. The Chinese second-class cruiser, Hai-yiian, the 
flagship of Admiral Yeh Tsu-kuei (Hffi^l), was outside the bar 
but did not participate in the hostilities. 

Relief of Tientsin.— Before the fall of the Taku Forts, the 
Boxers had secured complete control of the native city of Tientsin. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



605 



In the neighborhood there had also been concentrated a large 
Chinese army with instructions to oppose any further armed 
force that the allies might try to send to Peking. When the 
news of the loss of the Taku Forts became known to the Chinese, 
the foreign settlements of Tientsin were bombarded with much 
damage. Happily some 2,000 Russian soldiers had arrived a few 
days before and they held the railway station against the 
combined attacks of the Boxers and regular troops. Communi- 
cation with Taku being interrupted, it was with the greatest 
difficulty that word was sent to the allied naval commanders 
informing them of the danger to which the foreign concession 
was exposed. The siege of Tientsin was not raised till June 24th, 
when a large force arrived from Taku. On the following day a 
relief party found Admiral Seymour's force and brought them to 
Tientsin. The Boxers remained in possession of the native city 
and forts from which they continued to shell the settlements. 

Siege of the Legations. — In" the meantime matters in 
Peking had gone from bad to worse. By the time the Seymour 
Expedition left Tientsin, the Boxers were beyond all restraint ; 
and it was not safe for foreigners to venture out of the Legation 
quarter, where preparations were being made to defend themselves 




Legation Street, Peking, after the siege. ("China atid Her People," II) 

against an attack. A secretary of the Japanese Legation was 
murdered and mutilated near the railway station, where he had 
gone in the hope of seeing something of Admiral Seymour's 



606 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



party. Churches, chapels, schools and other foreign property in 
Peking were looted, destroyed, and burned ; foreign cemeteries 
were desecrated, and hundreds of native Christians and employees 
of foreigners were put to death in a most horrible manner. The 
business portion of Peking, with its three thousand shops and 
houses and twenty-six banks, was also burned, because some of 
the shops sold foreign goods. All these crimes were committed 
by the Boxers, with the connivance, if not with the express 
orders of the Government, which, it must be remembered, meant 
little more than Prince Tuan and the extreme Manchu party, 
who were only waiting for an excuse to declare war upon the 
foreign ministers. 

The attack and capture of the Taku Forts by the allies 
furnished the excuse desired . The foreign ministers were ordered 
to leave Peking within twenty-four hours, and the German 
minister when proceeding to the Tsungli Yamen to meet an 
appointment was shot. At the expiration of the time allowed the 
ministers to leave Peking, the legations were bombarded; and, 
from that time, July 20, until August 14, when relief came, they 
were constantly subjected to rifle and artillery fire at the hands of 
the Boxers and the soldiers of General Tung Fu-hsiang. The 
Boxers displayed on their banners the characters that meant, 
" Exterminate All Foreigners and Save the Dynasty" (*$ # & ^). 
Most of the foreigners found shelter in the British Legation, while 
native Christians and the families of foreigners' servants were 
placed in the palace of Prince Su (M) . It was due to the divided 
opinion in the council of war that the besieged did not meet with 
a worse fate. Several ministers of state were summarily sent to 
the execution ground because they had the courage to oppose 
the views of Prince Tuan. In an attempt to destroy the foreigners 
in the British Legation, the Hanlin Library was deliberately 
burned. 

Capture of the Native City of Tientsin.— It was not con- 
sidered advisable to try to send relief to Peking with the native city 
of Tientsin in the hands of the Boxers; but the first attempt to 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



m 



carry it by storm was not successful. In the second attack one of 
the gates was blown open by the Japanese and the allies were 
admitted. The city was captured at great cost in life, and was 
given up to be looted. For a brief time anarchy prevailed; but an 
efficient administration was soon organized and order promptly 
restored. From July 18, 1900, to August 15, 1902, Tientsin was 
under the military authority constituted by the allies. 




Black Fort at Tientsin 

Relief of Peking. — Having collected an army at Tientsin and 
having made the base secure, the allies once more set out towards 
Peking with some 20,000 men. It had been suggested that Japan 
alone, owing to her geographical position, should undertake to effect 
the rescue of the foreign ministers ; but on this the powers could not 
agree. The advance of the allies was vigorously opposed by the 
Chinese troops and Boxers. Severe battles were fought at Peitang 
(=ib $r) and Yangts'un. At both places the Chinese were driven out 
of their entrenched positions, at the former by the Japanese alone, 
and at the latter by the allies. After the defeat of Yangts'un, 
Viceroy Yii Lu (&*&), of Chihli, committed suicide. The Chinese 
became so demoralized that they made no determined resistance at 
either Hosiwu (fflm*k),OT Chang Chia Wan (m^W). Tungchow 
(it >H), the next city between Peking and the allies, was held by 
soldiers under Li Ping-heng ($ ^ $f). He fared no better than his 
colleague, Yii Lu (& *&), whose example he promptly followed, when 
Tungchow was occupied by the allies. On their arrival at Peking, 



608 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

the allies found all their ministers safe except the German represent- 
ative, although several of the legations had been destroyed. Peking- 
was once more at the mercy of foreigners, who looted at will, 
marched through the forbidden city and its imperial palaces, and 
committed all sorts of excesses by way of revenge. The Peking 
Observatory was deprived of its historic astronomical instruments, 
which the Germans carried to Europe as spoils. 

Flight of the Court.— As the allies entered Peking, the 
Empress Dowager, Emperor and members of the Imperial Court 
took to flight. Amidst untold hardships and after frequent halts, 
they reached Taiylianfu in Shansi; while many officials and their 
families not being able to join the Imperial party committed suicide 
in Peking. In the first decree issued in the name of the Emperor 
after his flight from Peking, he took all the blame for the Boxer 
uprising upon himself; but the world knew that he was not guilty. 
That decree was followed by another one calling upon the provincial 
authorities to exterminate the Boxers. " Owing to the famine that 
was threatening Taiyiian," the court subsequently moved to Sian, 
the capital of Shensi. 

The Yangtze Compact.— Thanks to the sagacity of Viceroys 
Chang Chih-tung (m Z M) and Liu K ( un-i (g"J *$ — ), the Yangtze 
basin remained ccmparatively quiet during the Boxer Uprising. 
After the taking of the Taku Forts, orders were telegraphed through- 
out China to declare war against the world and to massacre foreign- 
ers wherever found. The two Viceroys, however, had received 
word from Yung Eu informing them of the authors of these 
instructions. Upon their own responsibility, they then concluded 
with the foreign consuls, through the Taotai of Shanghai, an 
agreement in which they took upon themselves the obligation to 
protect foreign lives and property in Central and South China. 
They remained faithful to their obligations, and the authorities of 
Fukien soon entered into a similar agreement with the foreign 
representatives of Foochow. With the exception of the Chu-chow 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



609 




Chang Chih-tung 

massacre, no foreign life was sacrificed south of the Yangtze; and 
the sphere of Boxer activities was confined to the North, chiefly in 
Chihli and Shansi. In the latter province a wholesale massacre of 
missionaries was perpetrated in the presence of its governor, Yii 
Hsien. 



610 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 




Prince Ch'ing 



At Amoy, a small Japanese temple was burned, whereupon the 
Japanese consul immediately landed soldiers on both Kulangsu and 
Amoy to the consternation of the native populace. The Taotai, 
Yen Nien (M. ¥), assisted by the American and British consuls, did 
splendid work in maintaining order, and the Japanese were soon 
obliged to withdraw their men to their ships. With the exception 
of this little incident there was no hostile demonstration on the part 
of any foreign government in South China, because it was unneces- 
sary. 

There being no war in the South, the viceroys and governors 
were able to send supplies to the court at Sian. 

Peace Negotiations.— The flight of the court left Peking 
without a responsible government to negotiate for peace. For some 
time the powers could not agree upon the terms to be presented to 
China, and the Kaiser's appointment of Count Waldersee as Com- 
mander-in-Chief of the allied forces also tended to complicate 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY Oil 

matters. But before this new Chief arrived in China, Li Hung- 
chang and Prince Ch'ing were recognized by the foreign governments 
as peace negotiators, the former having been recently transferred 
from the Canton viceroyalty to his old post at Tientsin. After 
many weary months they signed a protocol with the foreign ministers 
and commissioners. The principal conditions of peace were: — 

1. Erection of a monument to the memory of the German 
minister on the spot where he had been murdered, and the 
dispatch of an Imperial prince to Germany to express the regrets 
of the Chinese Emperor for the sad occurrence. A similar mission 
was also to be sent to Japan on account of the murder of the 
secretary of the Japanese Legation. 

2. Punishment of the princes and ministers named by the 
foreign representatives. 

3. Suspension of provincial examinations at places where 
massacres had occurred. 

4. Maintenance by foreign powers of permanent guards at 
Peking and between that city and Taku to keep open the line of 
communication, and the razing of the forts at the latter point. 

5. Payment of an indemnity of 450 million taels. 

6. Reorganization of the Tsungli Yamen, and final adjust- 
ment of the audience question so that foreign ministers should be 
received by the Emperor in a manner befitting their representative 
character. 

7. Suspension of the importation of arms and all warlike 
materials. 

Most of the terms had been carried into effect before the 
protocol was signed. The death sentence had been passed upon 
eleven princes and ministers ; and it had fallen to the lot of 
Prince Shun to go to Germany, and Vice-President Na Tung, to 
Japan. Prince Shun was thus the first Manchu prince to see 
Europe. These terms were very severe indeed ; but China had to 
choose between them and dismemberment, and in that trying 
hour she chose the lesser of two evils. Inasmuch as Count 
Waldersee with his headquarters in one of the Imperial palaces in 



612 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



Peking had sent several punitive expeditions to Paotingfu and 
other places, the court had every reason to feel relieved when the 
allies did not go to Sian. 

Li Hung-chang did not live long after this protocol was 
signed. After having saved China on more than one occasion 
from her enemies, both foreign and domestic, during the last 
forty years, he died in Peking on November 7, 1901. 

Russia in Manchuria. — Russia had long persuaded China 
that she was her best friend, and this policy she pursued during 
the Boxer trouble. She gave L,i Hung-chang an escort from 
Tientsin to Peking, and even offered to withdraw her troops 
before other powers were ready. The fact was that she wished 
to make her stay in Manchuria permanent. When Manchuria 
had declared war against her, she had seized every important city 
in that territory, including Mukden and Newchwang, and treated 
the Chinese with needless cruelty, expecially at Blagoveschensk, 
where 5,000 were thrown into the Amur and drowned. When 
she saw England and Germany conclude an agreement to preserve 
the integrity of China — a policy approved by most of the other, 
powers — she did not wish China to think that she was less 




The Upper Amur River 

friendly than they were. She accordingly signified her willing- 
ness to evacuate Manchuria ; but, nevertheless, insisted on leaving 
a force large enough to protect her railways in that region. As 
China was too weak to resist, Ts'eng Chi (if jjj£) agreed to every- 
thing she demanded. So long as Russia had the railways she 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 613 

bad Manchuria ; and it was her persistency in keeping this 
territory that finally led her to war with Japan. 

Missionary Interference in Civil Affairs. — Owing to their 
exposed position, missionaries as a body suffered more than any 
other class of foreigners during the Boxer trouble ; but even they 
were not entirely free from blame. Their principal fault lay in 
the fact that some of them assisted Chinese in their lawsuits in 
order to secure new converts. This was especially true of the 
Catholic priests. They had official rank conferred on them by 
the Emperor, and were permitted to communicate with the local 
officials either in person or by writing. A priest would often tell 
the officials that the converts could have done no wrong because 
they were Christians, or because he had investigated the case and 
knew what he was talking about. He would then dictate to 
them what action to take ; and, in case of refusal to comply, a 
threat to report them to their superior officials for their failure 
to protect Christians from persecution usually had the desired 
effect. The result was that the outside people in going to law 
with a "convert" often got anything but justice; and murderers, 
thieves, and other criminals nocked into the church. After 
the Boxer . trouble the British minister issued an order that 
missionaries should confine themselves to reporting genuine cases 
of persecution to their consuls ; and the American minister had 
more than one occasion to insist that American citizens had no 
treaty right to deal directly with Chinese officials. These facts 
alone are sufficient to show that the Protestant missionaries had 
also indulged in this illegal and harmful practice, although to a 
much less extent than the Roman Catholics. 

China owes much to missionaries for new ideas and knowl- 
edge ; she also owes much to them for the Boxer Uprising. 
There were 2,218 missionaries in China at the time the uprising 
took place. 



614 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

CHAPTER LXIII 

THE CLOSING YEARS OF KUANG HSU'S REIGN 

The Return of the Court to Peking; The Empress Dow- 
ager Leader of the Reform Movement. — The Boxer Uprising of 
1900, as we have seen, was a desperate struggle between the old 
and new forces of China, ending in the complete defeat of the former. 
It brought in its train disasters of unparalleled magnitude ; and 
also seeds of hope, which began to take root in 1902. The first 
good omen of that year was the return of the Imperial Court to 
Peking, on January 7. They had left Sian in the preceding Octo- 
ber. The old Empress Dowager was still at the head of affairs, 
but she was not the same as she was before the Boxer madness. 
She had become fully reconciled to the progressive ideas of the 
Emperor. She had freed herself from the influence of Prince 
Tuan and other leaders of the reactionary party, whom she had 
punished either by death or banishment; and had formally 
disinherited the youth appointed to succeed Kuang Hsti. After 
having travelled from Paotingfu to Peking on the road the 
Boxers had tried to destroy, she had also learned to appreciate the 
comfort and speed afforded by a modern train; and, from the 
moment she entered Peking till her death in 1908, she identified 
herself with the reform movement. China, indeed, had played at 
reform before ; this time she was in earnest because the move- 
ment was directed by the strong hand of a wonderful woman, ad- 
vanced in years to be sure, but not enfeebled in mind or energy. 

The Principal Causes of Reform. — Before proceeding to 
record the progress this movement made during the last years of 
the reign of Kuang Hsu, it is desirable to mention the two 
principal causes, which, following the severe lesson of the Boxer 
war, have tended to give permanence to the awakening in China. 
They are the war between Russia and Japan and the Sudden 
Birth of National Feeling in China. One of these was external 
and the other internal, the latter being in some measure a product 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 615 

of the former. A war in which China took no part would have 
been ordinarily no matter of interest to Chinese history. Bnt the 
Russo-Japanese War arose out of a question of vital interest to 
China, was carried on largely on her soil, and had the most 
far-reaching effect, both directly and indirectly, upon her future. 
The Russo-Japanese War. — In fighting the Boxers, Russia 
had occupied Manchuria; and, although she made .a promise 
to withdraw, yet she never intended to keep her word. When 
she also began to interfere in Corean affairs, Japan felt that her 
national existence was in danger. Russia thought Japan would 
never go to war, but Japan knew that she must fight Russia before 
the giant was ready. Russia had then two important strongholds 
in the east, Port Arthur and Vladivostok ; and her army was 
scattered over Manchuria and North Corea. Her fleet was 
likewise scattered in Corean and Chinese waters. Japan's object 
was to drive Russia out of Corea and Manchuria, destroy her fleet 
and take Port Arthur. On the night of February 8, 1904, 
Admiral Togo made an attack on the Russian fleet at Port Arthur 
and the war began in earnest. 

In this night attack, Togo was successful. He found the Rus- 
sians in the midst of their festivities, and sank two and disabled 
several of their fighting ships. On the next day the attack was 
renewed with further damage to the Russian fleet. Shortly before 
this a Japanese squadron had destroyed two Russian ships at Che- 
mulpo. During the next three months many attempts were made 
by the Japanese to blockade Port Arthur. On April 17, the Rus- 
sians made a sortie when one of their ships, with Admiral Makoroff 
on board, was sunk by a floating mine. After this disaster, they 
made no further sallies ; but left their Vladivostok squadron to 
destroy Japanese shipping. On August 10, the remaining Russian 
ships made a bold attempt to escape from Port Arthur, but were 
pursued by the Japanese fleet and dispersed. Several of them 
succeeded in regaining Port Arthur; and those escaping to neutral 
ports were either interned or captured. About the same time, the 
Vladivostok squadron was met and its fighting strength destroyed. 



616 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

The total loss of the Japanese during these months was three 
ships, one by collision and two by floating mines. 

The Japanese were no less Successful on Land. — After a 
few skirmishes, their first army drove the inferior Russian force 
out of Corea. The first general battle was fought on the Yalu, 
April 29-May 1, when the Japanese successfully crossed the river. 
Two more armies landed on the Liaotung Peninsula and, after 
isolating Port Arthur, marched north. The task of reducing that 
strong fortress was left to the Fourth Army under General Nogi, 
who entered Dalny on May 30 ; but Port Arthur, defended by 
soldiers as brave as their assailants, held out seven months longer, 
and might have done even better than that but for its commander. 
It surrendered on January 1st, 1905. Opposed to the three 
armies under Field-Marshal Oyama was the main Russian force 
under General Kuropatkin. The battles of I^iaoyang and Mukden 
were among the greatest battles in the military annals of the 
world for the number of men engaged, the extent of ground 
covered, and the means employed; everything was the latest and 
best that the human brain had invented for the destruction of 
man. Their results were very much the same ; Oyama gained the 
victory, but Kuropatkin executed his masterly retreat. After the 
battle of Mukden, the scene of action again shifted to the sea. 

Russia had towards the end of the preceding year sent out 
what was known as the Baltic Fleet, one portion sailing around the 
Cape of Good Hope and the other through the Suez Canal, to 
retrieve the fortunes of war. Having effected a junction off the 
coast of Madagascar, the first fleet was joined by a second off 
Samarang whence the whole force sailed for Vladivostok. In 
the Strait of Tsushima, the Russian and Japanese fleets met and 
a great naval fight ensued with the result that nearly all the 
Russian ships were either sunk or captured. As both countries 
were then almost exhausted, the war was brought to a close 
through the good offices of President Roosevelt of the United 
States. By the Treaty of Portsmouth the lease of the Liaotung 
Peninsula was transferred to Japan. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 617 

Moral Effect of the War in China. — Such were the outlines 
of a great conflict, the turning point in the world's history. For 
the first time, a European power in carrying out her unrestrained 
aggression in Asia was obliged to own defeat at the hands of an 
Asiatic nation. The event was too instructive not to have its 
effect upon China, especially at a time when she was too weak 
either to participate in a war that was waged within her borders, 
or to compel the belligerents to respect her neutrality. Yesterday 
Japan was a semi-barbarous nation ; to-day she beats Russia, 
becomes an ally of England, and is the only Asiatic nation that 
exercises jurisdiction over aliens within her borders. What may 
not China accomplish with her greater population, territory and 
resources, if she only follows the footsteps of Japan ? What will 
be her fate if she continues in her old ways ? How can she face 
both Russia and Japan in Manchuria, if one of them has already 
proved to be more than a match for her? These are a few of the 
questions that suggested themselves to the mind of all thoughtful 
Chinese at the close of the Russo-Japanese War. Time and 
again has China been told what she should do ; and now she 
knows what she can do as well as what she must do. 

Sudden Birth of National Feeling; Boycott of American 
Goods. — The best evidence of the birth of a national feeling in 
China was the movement set on foot in 1905 to buy no American 
goods. This boycott was instituted to express their disapproval of 
the treatment they had been receiving from America. For years 
America had tried to exclude Chinese on the ground that Chinese 
laborers were robbing the white laborers of their bread. In legisla- 
tion, and by unauthorized acts of their custom officers, the Americans 
had dealt harshly with Chinese laborers as well as other classes, and 
since their acquisition of the Philippine Islands this policy had been 
extended to them. The Chinese in America were mostly from 
Canton, while those in the Philippine Islands were chiefly from 
Fukien; but the centre of the boycott was Shanghai. The day when 
Chinese of one province looked upon those of another with indiffer- 
ence was now past. A nation must rise or fall together, and the 



618 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Chinese were beginning to realize this truth. The boycott gradually 
extended to other ports, although in the North, owing to the strong 
attitude of Yuan Shih-k'ai, Viceroy of Chihli, it was less severe than 
in the South. It worked such havoc to American trade that it 
produced a feeling in the United States in favor of less objectionable 
laws. President Taft, then Secretary of War, visited China towards 
the end of the year. Unfortunately Chinese merchants also suffered 
considerably on account of the boycott; and the whole movement 
soon died out. The boycott is not a Chinese institution, but its use 
in this country is evidence of how rapidly the Chinese can adopt 
foreign ideas. 

Reform Memorials of the Yangtze Viceroys.— The trans- 
formation of China had a new beginning in an edict of January 
30, 1901. In response to this edict, the Yangtze viceroys laid 
before the Throne in the following year a most elaborate reform 
program which includes : — 

1. Establishment of schoo'ls of different grades {WfX $i & ^). 

2. Modification of the literary examination system (& & ~X ffi) . 

3. Discontinuation of the military examination system (f? ft 

4. Encouragement to students who go abroad for the purpose 
of travel and education (§&Wj M ^). 

In their subsequent memorials, further recommendations were 
made as follows : — 

(a) Reduction of the Court expenses (#tffft). 

(b) Promotion by merit and ability rather than seniority 

(c) Abolition of the sale of substantive official rank (1£ 3f§ |ft). 
id) Adequate salary for public servants (Wk ^11). 

(e) Abolition of the system of clerks and Yamen runners 
(£#££-:£!£). 

if) Judicial and prison reforms (tifi K\ i£). 

(g) Reformed system of making appointments to government 
offices (E5ci!*£). 

(A) Employment of the Banner-man in other walks of life 
rather than in the Manchu army (fg A M £ ft). 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 619 

(«) Abolition of the grain transport system (Ml *&#;)• 
( j ) Disbandment of the " Green Camp " ($ m m). 
{ k ) Adoption of more practical administrative rules and 
regulations <$J 3: *£). 

(/) Encouragement to nobles and officials to travel abroad 

i w ) A Modern Army m ftmtik). 

(;/ ) Manufacture of arms and ammunition (Jg- ¥ W). 

f 0) Encouragement to agricultural enterprises (if E life). 

('/> ) Promotion of industries (Wl I H). 

i q ! Adoption of modern mining, railway, commercial, and 
criminal codes (£ m # gfr # 3£ $ 5f>) #) . 

( ;- » Uniform monetary system based on the silver dollar 

(M £tc). 

(^) Introduction of a stamp tax (jf Ep ^ $£). 

(/) Extension of the Imperial Postal Service (#t ii %llk). 

( u ) Government monopoly in opium Cgf 4fc # sg). 

(v) Translation of foreign works (£ m 3lC M # * if). 

Thus was the basis of the transformation of China carefully 
laid out. We shall now glance briefly at the measures that have 
been adopted. 

Education. — In the province of education more progress has 
been made than elsewhere. For a number of years educational 
affairs were placed in the hands of a commission in Peking which 
had under its immediate charge the Imperial University of Peking 
where the Chinese, English, French, German, Japanese, and Russian 
languages, and law, mathematics, chemistry, physiology, etc., were 
taught. Later it was made into a regular Board under the name of 
the Board of Education (^ SB). Under this Board, colleges, primary 
and secondary schools, normal, mechanical, agricultural, police and 
military schools multiplied throughout the Empire. According to 
official recurns compiled by the Board of Education, the number of 
government schools, excluding military and naval schools, reached 
35,198 at the end of 1910, with a total enrollment of 875,760 



()20 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Hundreds of students supported by the Government or otherwise 
have gone to Europe, America, or Japan. On their return they 
have been examined by competent men in Peking and given Chinese 
degrees which serve as passports to government offices. The objec- 
tionable feature of this system is that the successful candidates are 
not always employed in the work for which they have taken special 
pains to prepare themselves, with the result that medical men have 
been appointed tax-collectors, mining engineers assigned to clerical 
duties, and so on. The old system of literary examination was all 
swept away by an edict of September 5, 1905, the " Eight Legs" 
having been previously declared obsolete. 

Translations of foreign standard works have gradually reached 
the most distant parts of the country; and various regulations 
governing public instruction have come into force. In each province 
there is a commissioner of education (IS ^ ^ gj) whose duty it is to 
further the interest of public instruction. Education was not made 
compulsory. 

By an edict of 1906 five points were to be emphasized in every 
school; (1) Loyalty (&gr); (2) Confucianism (B IL) ; (3) Nation- 
alism (ft&) (4) Martial Spirit (^ft); and (5) Honesty (ft X). 
Mission schools still continued to do good work although they 
received no official recognition from the Government. 

Newspapers have also multiplied. In 1908 the first press laws 
came into force. 

Army and Wavy. — In January, 1905, a plan for the gradual 
organization of an army along modern lines was set forth by Im- 
perial edict. It was to be completed in 1922. Eventually China 
was to have 36 divisions (H) of about 10,000 men each, and the 
whole was to be divided into two armies known as the Northern 
and the Southern. The recruits were to be secured on the voluntary 
principle, the terms of service being 3 years with the colors, 3 with 
the reserves, and 4 in the territorial army, or 10 years in all. The 
Japanese system of training was followed. The reservists were called 
out for a month of training every year; the men in the territorial 
army for the same period every other year. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 621 

At the end of 1908 there were six divisions and one mixed 
brigade (& JK 1&) (about 60,000 men with 350 guns) in the North- 
ern Army, and three divisions and one brigade (about 40,000 men 
with 174 guns) in the Southern Army. The former were superior 
to the latter in both training and equipment. About a third of the 
Northern Army occupied garrisons in Manchuria. The arms of the 
new troops were far from uniform, clue largely to the fact that 
each province was required to raise one or more divisions as its 
resources would permit. 

The Chinese navy in 1908 was represented by two cruisers of 
3,000 tons each, one cruiser of 4,000 tons, and a few smaller craft. 

Constitution. — Early in 1905, five Imperial Commissioners 
were sent to Europe, America and Japan to study and report upon 
their forms of government. As a result of their investigations, the 
Throne announced, on September 1, its intention to give the people a 
constitution as soon as they were ready for it, since it would certainly 
be unwise to grant them rights and confer upon them duties when 
they did not know how to exercise or discharge them. Throughout 
the next two years many things were done to give practical effect 
to the policy of preparation. The newly created Commission on the 
Compilation of a Constitution (ji i£fc M ^ itl) became the sole law 
giving power under the Throne. It passed many laws, including 
the "Outlines of a Constitution" (I? & icl), which showed clearly 
the character of the Constitution to be promulgated in the future. 
Finally it prepared a Program of Preparation (f| H® M $c ffi IPO, an d 
stated what annual changes were to be effected up to the year 1915, 
when the convocation (g %) of a parliament (if $%) was to take- 
place. Before 1915 the Tzu Cheng Yuan (^JEJc i&), which was 
described in the decree creating it as the " Foundation of Parlia- 
ment " (II $tc 3? &) and which was to consist of a total membership 
of 200, one half of whom were to be appointed by the Throne, and 
the remaining half by the Viceroys and Governors of the provinces, 
was to act as an advisory board to the Central Government. The 
Tzu I Chii (f$ H Mi), or Provincial Assembly, was to fill a similar 
place in the government of a province. The number of members 



622 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

varied from 140 in Chihli to 114 in Chekiang, and was as low as 30 
in Kirin, Heilungkiang and Hsinkiang. It was intended that both 
the National and Provincial Assemblies should become the nurseries 
for the future members of Parliament. The meeting of the Provin- 
cial Assemblies was set for 1909 ; and the National Assembly was to 
convene a year later. Their functions were, to be purely consult- 
ative, and they were to be discontinued when the Parliament came 
into being. 

Reorganization of the Government.— By an edict of 
November 6, 1906, the Central Government was reorganized so as 
to consist of the following principal departments : — 

1. The Waiwupu (^ ?£ SB), or Board of Foreign Affairs. 

2. The Lipu (j£ SB), or Board of Civil Appointments. 

3. The Minchengpu (& m SB), or Board of Civil Affairs. (This 
was the Board of Constabulary ($£ if SB) with a new name). 

4. The Tuchihpu (jg^SB), or Board of Finance. (An am- 
algamation of the old Board of Revenue, (p SB) and the Council 
of Finance (Sti&sg)). 

5. The Lipu (jjg SB), or Board of Rites. (An amalgamation of 
the Courts of Sacrificial Worship (i;$r#), Imperial Entertainments 
(3fc !& "%), and State Ceremonial (r# 8 HI #). 

6. The Hsiiehpu (^ SB), or Board of Education. 

7. The Luchiinpu (|>£ ¥SB), or Army Board. (An amalgam- 
ation of the old Board of War and the Council of Army Reor- 
ganization ($j! ^ it). This Board was to take charge of the Affairs 
of the Navy (mW-&) and of the General Staff (?f$ Jfif) until such 
time as a Naval Board and a General Staff were established). 

8. The Board of Punishments was given the new name of 
Board of Justice, or Fapu (*£ SB). 

9. The Board of Works was amalgamated with the Board 
of Commerce and renamed the Board of Agriculture, Works and 
Commerce (MX}&SB). 

10. The Yuch'uanpu (H5 ff SB), or Board of Posts and Com- 
munications. (A new Board to take charge of the affairs relating 
to steamships, railways, telegraphs, and postal administration). 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY (>23 

11. The Mongol Super intendency was renamed the Board of 
Colonics (JSUIhB). All these boards were to continue to receive 
instructions through the Grand Council. 

Instead of two presidents and four vice-presidents, half Manchu 
and half Chinese, each board, the Waiwupu excepted, was to have 
but one president and two vice-presidents, irrespective of race. 

In 1907, a new system of provincial government was introduced 
in Manchuria; but at the end of 1908 it had hardly passed the 
experimental stage, and none of the eighteen provinces had been 
ordered to adopt it. 

The sale of substantive official ranks was stopped in 1901. 

Internal Communications. — At the end of the year 1908 
there were open for traffic 2,500 miles of railway, not including the 
Russian or Japanese roads in Manchuria, while more than 1,700 
miles of new trunk lines were under construction. All the principal 
cities of the empire were connected by telegraph lines which required 
39,196 miles of wire, and about 500 offices for the 26,000 miles of 
distance covered. In accordance with an edict of 1901, the enter- 
prise has been turned over to the Government. There were 592 
post offices and 2,901 agencies scattered over the eighteen provinces 
and Manchuria. China has postal agreements with India, France, 
Japan, Germany, and Hongkong. 

Owing to the absence of good roads, internal trade is carried 
on chiefly by means of numerous canals and navigable rivers which 
have been open to both foreign and native steamers since 1898. In 
1907 there were registered at the river ports 864 steamers for inland 
water traffic, 609 of these being under the Chinese flag. 

Finance. — Under the Peace Protocol, the first instalment of 
the Boxer Indemnity fell due in 1902. Between that year and 
1910, the viceroys and governors were required to remit an 
annual sum of 18,700,000 taels. As a consequence many new 
taxes of a more or less local character came into existence. Sir 
Robert Hart proposed an increase of the land tax, but Chang 
Chih-tung was not in favor of this scheme. A stamp tax was 



624 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

later introduced, but without apparent success. Nor was the 
issue of government bonds in connection with railway enterprises 
very successful. The result of official investigations, instituted 
under the direction of the Board of Finance, shows the revenue 
and expenditure of the provinces for the year 1908 to be 120,523- 
212 taels and 123,847,152 taels respectively, or a deficit of more 
than 3 million taels. By an edict of May 9, 1906, two Comp- 
trollers-General were appointed to supervise the Customs Service. 
They formed the Shuiwuchu (flfc^JI?), and to this department 
and not to the Waiwupu, the Inspector-General of customs was to 
report. Further than this the new arrangement made no change, 
and it neither interfered with the Inspector-General's authority 
nor the arrangement under which China pays him a certain 
sum, to be regulated by the amount of the revenue collected, 
for running expenses. Since 1901, the native customs of the 
treaty ports that were hypothecated for the payment of the Boxer 
Indemnity have also been under his charge. The total revenue 
collected during 1906, amounting to Hk. Tls. 36,098,595, was 
the largest since 1900. The returns of the next two years both 
show a slight decrease. At the end of 1907, the outstanding debt 
secured on Imperial revenue amounted to ^123,685,730. 

In the British treaty of September 5, 1902, China promised 
to provide a uniform national coinage to be the legal tender for 
all purposes throughout the Chinese Empire. Many plans bear- 
ing on this subject have since been submitted, including that of 
Prof. Jenks of the United States ; but up to 1908 nothing definite 
was done. In October 1908 an edict commanded the introduction 
of a uniform tael currency of which the unit was to be a silver coin 
of 98 touch weighing one K'u-ping ounce. The half-tael coin was 
also to be of 98 touch, but subsidiary coins might be of only 88 
touch. For a time the provincial mints had found it profitable to 
turn out copper coins of the value of the "hundredth part of a 
dollar." The issue to the end of 1906 was computed to be 
12,500,000. Depreciation then followed the overproduction, and 
the output had to be restricted. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 625 

Extraterritoriality. — Foreigners in China are not amenable 
to Chinese courts, but to consular courts of their own nationality. 
This privilege is called "Extraterritoriality" (fl&#&1S). Inas- 
much as Chinese and Manchus for many years were not subjected 
to the same law or courts, China never regarded the granting of 
this privilege as an infringement of her sovereign rights until she 
saw its abolition in Japan. She then began to see the matter in 
its true light and now knows where the remedy lies. In 1901 
Viceroys Yuan Shih-k'ai and Chang Chih-tung were commanded 
to have foreign laws translated and adapted to China, and in the 
next year a commission was appointed for the Revision of the 
Statutes (i^ff *£ # ^c I£). This commission, consisting of Shen 
Chia-pen and Wu Ting- fang, did good work. Corporal punish- 
ment, as a means of extorting confession, was "forever abol- 
ished;" and the cangue is to give place to a fine. The death 
penalty was kept in force, but without the unnecessary barbarities 
attending such methods as mutilation iM F) and the "lingering- 
Process" (^ si). No one was to be held responsible for the crime 
of a relative; and many other objectionable features of both the 
Chinese law and the manner of its administration were either 
removed or modified. The work of this commission, however, 
was still far from completion at the beginning of the Revolution. 

In view T of the desire of the Government to bring the judicial 
system into accord with that of Western nations, both Great 
Britain and the United States have agreed to relinquish their 
extraterritorial rights when they are justified in such a step. 
(Art. 12, Bri. Ty. 1902. Art. 15, Am. Ty. 1903). At the end 
of 1908 there were in China 69,852 persons not amenable to 
Chinese law. 

Productions, Industry and Commerce. — Since the establish- 
ment of the Board of Commerce in 1902, much impetus has been 
given to the industrial movement. Many companies have 
registered themselves under the new corporation law. Cotton, 
woollen, paper, rice and flour mills have sprung up in large 
centres; and silk filatures have multiplied in the silk producing 



626 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



districts. In 1906, an edict called upon the Boards and the 
provincial authorities concerned to do everything in their power 
to further the interests of cotton production in the Yangtze basin. 

The control of mining operations were also in the hands of 
this board. In 1907, regulations were made respecting the 
constitution of mining and other companies ; but as these contain 
many objectionable features, a protest against them was made 
by the foreigu ministers. Up to 1908, many of the foreigners had 
failed to make practical use of their concessions. The Chinese 
companies had also failed to make much progress with their 
schemes. Of the mining exports in 1908, tin was the largest item, 
amounting to ^597,740 in value. The tea exported shewed an 
increase; and amounted to 210,151,466 pounds in 1908, as against 
182,573,064 in 1905. In the matter cf raw silk China controlled 
27 per cent of the world's supply. Her most formidable rivals in 
this commodity were Japan with 28 per cent to her credit, and Italy 
with 25 per cent. Serious efforts were made to revive the fishing 
industry in the North ; but at the end of 1908 the output was 
insignificant. The export of coal, which amounted to only 27,894 
tons, was insignificant. In 1908 the forty-three ports in China 
showed a total value in native exports of Tls. 44,315,481. 

The Anti-Foot-Binding Edict.— Soon after her return to 
Peking, the Empress Dowager issued an edict condemning the 
practice of foot-binding among the Chinese. Being a Manchu 
woman with natural feet, no one was in a better position than 
herself to lead this all important movement. No nation can 
become strong with her women deformed, and she was right in 
saying that the practice was " a crime against nature.' ' Knowing 
that it was a matter where legislation alone could not produce the 
desired effect, she urged all leading Chinese to carry on a campaign 
against it. In the same decree she abolished all the restrictions 
that had been placed upon the intermarriage of Chinese and 
Manchus. No Chinese girls, however, were to be admitted into 
the Imperial harem. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 627 

The Anti-Opium Campaign. — Another great evil that hinders 
the development of this nation is the opium habit. In 1906 there 
appeared the first edict in which the Chinese Government declared its 
intention to eradicate the whole evil within ten years. The measures 
subsequently adopted not only sought to restrict the tise and sale of 
opium, but also tried to prevent the cultivation of the poppy. Great 
Britain at last agreed to begin to reduce in 1908 the importation of 
the Indian product. This arrangement is as yet a tentative one, as 
much depends upon China's ability to stop the importation from 
other countries and the production within her own borders. In 
other words, Great Britain wishes to follow rather than lead in a 
movement looking to the suppression of an evil, because its continu- 
ance means money to her. 

In 1908, Prince Kung was appointed the head of an Anti- 
Opium commission under whose direction the campaign was hence- 
forth to be carried on. All officials known to have the opium habit 
had to subject themselves to a test before they could be retained in 
the service. 

Foreign Relations. — China's relations with the outside world 
between the years 1902 and 1908 were, as a whole, satisfactory. 
In dealing with foreign governments, she no longer looked down 
upon them with contempt. On the other hand, foreigners, too eager 
to invest money in China, found themselves confronted by a new 
element which was voiced in the student cry of " China for the 
Chinese.'' The Emperor gave many audiences to foreign ambas- 
sadors and distinguished visitors; while the ladies of the Lega- 
tions were, on more than one occasion, entertained by the Empress 
Dowager. In 1903, Prince Tsai Chen was sent to attend the 
coronation of Edward VII ; and in the following year Prince Pulun 
went to the United States to represent China at the St. Louis 
Exposition. 

In Tibet, Col. Younghusband's mission met with considerable 
armed resistance until Lhasa was entered by force; and then the 
matter was settled amicably. In February, 1908, the British began 



628 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

to evacuate the Chumby Valley, and two months later trade regula- 
tions were established between Tibet and India. According to this 
convention, which was duly ratified by China, no Tibetan territory 
was to be sold, leased, or mortgaged to any foreign power ; and, 
under a convention of 1907, Great Britain and Russia agreed not to 
send representatives to Lhasa, or to negotiate with Tibet except 
through the Chinese Government. 

The boycott of 1905, to which reference has already been made, 
threatened China's friendly relations with the United States, but its 
effect was only temporary. In 1908, the American fleet visited 
Amoy, where it met with a cordial reception from Prince Yu Lang 
representing the Imperial Government, and Viceroy Shun Shou, the 
Provincial Government. The return of the Boxer indemnity by the 
United States is another evidence of the improved relations between 
the two countries. 

In 1907 tribute came from the King of Nepal, and in 1908 the 
Dalai Lama paid a visit to Peking. 

Death of the Emperor Kuang Hsti. — On November 14, 
1908, China was called upon to mourn the loss of the Emperor 
Kuang Hsu, and with his death an interesting epoch came to 
an end. During this period China was plunged into a national 
debt of unprecedented magnitude, had to own defeat by Japan, 
and had to cede territory on the mainland to foreign powers. 
The more the Manchu weakness was revealed the stronger had the 
antipathy of the Chinese to their ruler become. Having once felt 
the national impulse, Kuang Hsu had evidently meant to play, in 
1898, the part of the Japanese Mikado; but lacked the iron will of 
his ancestors to carry out his ambitious plan. Had he been left 
alone, he might have done something to win the love of the Chinese. 
Since he was during his last years completely ignored, it is hardly 
necessary to say that he was not at all responsible for the usurpation 
of the Empress Tz'ti Hsi. The death of the Emperor did not occur 
one moment too soon, for a storm of unusual force was gathering 
to break the Manchu house in pieces. This event he had tried hard 
to prevent, and it was well that he did not live to see it. 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



(J29 



CHAPTER LXIV 

THE REVOLUTION 

Accession of Hsiian T'ung. — Who was to be the successor 
of Kuang Hsii? That was indeed a momentous question, and upon 
the answer hung the future of the Manchu Dynasty. Whosoever 
succeeded to the throne must also accept the arduous duty that 
the promise to give the country a constitutional government had 
imposed. He must launch the empire safely upon a constitutional 
career, or take the responsibility for the misfortunes his predecessors 
had brought upon China. Unfortunately the decision in this grave 
matter rested entirely with a woman, the Empress Dowager Tz'u 
Hsi, who looked at it only in the light of her own ambition and 
permitted her personal feelings to get the better of her judgment. 
Having enjoyed power so long, she was unwilling to part with it even 

in her old days. As a 
man on the throne might 
mean % the end of her 
power, a child was al- 
ways to be preferred for 
that high position. Be- 
sides, there w r as a child 
born on February 11, 
1906, to the daughter of 
Jung L,u (^l&), whom 
she herself had caused 
to marry Prince Shun 
(JtfttS). 

Had Jung Lu not been 
a most devoted servant 
during all his life? Had 
not Pu-i CM fi), the child 
in question, since he was 
the eldest grand son of 
Kuang Hsu's father, as 




The Regent, Priuce Shun, with his two sons, 

Emperor Hsiian T'ung (standing) 

and Prince Pu Chi eh 



630 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

good a claim to the throne as any other living member of 
the Imperial House? Certainly she could have nothing to fear 
from either Pu-i's mother or father. Accordingly she decided 
the question in favor of Pu-i, and her decision was made public a 
few days before Kuang Hsu's death. The rest was but a matter of 
form. When the throne became vacant on November 14, 1908, 
Pu-i was proclaimed Emperor under the name of Hsiian T'ung 
(m^c). Dufing his minority, his father, Prince Shun, was to act 
as Regent, subject always to the orders of Tz'u Hsi, who now 
assumed the title of Empress-Grand-Dowager (±£±fe). Thus 
had Tz'ii Hsi completed her arrangements to have the reins of 
government remain in her own hands for an indefinite period. But 
the irony fate decreed otherwise. On November 15, 1908, the day 
after the demise of the Emperor, the Empress-Grand-Do wager also 
died, leaving Prince Shun, the Prince Regeni (it \M 81 Ifc 3£), to 
assume alone the responsibility of the Government. We have seen 
how the first Prince Regent of the Manchus conquered China in the 
name of his nephew, the Emperor Shun Chih. We shall presently 
see how their second Prince Regent lost it for his son, the Emperor 
Hsiian T'ung. 

The remains of the Empress-Grand-Dowager were interred at 
the Eastern Mausoleum OfC l^) October 9, 1910. 

The Period of Unrestrained Manchu Supremacy. — At 
the time of the death of the Empress-Grand-Dowager, there were 
two strong Chinese statesmen in the Grand Council. They were 
Yuan Shih-k'ai and Chang Chih-tung. The former had enjoyed the 
implicit confidence of Tz'ii Hsi during her last days. One of the 
first acts of the Prince Regent was to dismiss Yuan Shih-k'ai, who 
was sent to his home in Honan " to regain his health." His place 
in the Grand Council and at the head of the Waiwupu was given to 
Na T'ung (M ffl), a Manchu of high rank. Na T'ung's appointment 
to these responsible positions, in fact, marked the beginning of the 
unprecedented Manchu supremacy. One new office after another 
was created either for a Manchu prince, or for men that he named. 
When death removed Chang Chih-tung in 1909, there was no states- 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 631 

man in Peking equal to the crisis that confronted the Manchu 
Dynasty. The Government had fallen into the hands of young 
Manchu princes, who, as the Chinese say, "still smelt of their 
mother's milk " (fL &M&). The high-water mark was reached in 
1911 when Prince Ch'ing became Premier with a cabinet consisting 
almost entirely of members of the Imperial family and other 
Manchus. Prince Tsai Hsiin (•$} K $j), a younger brother of the 
Regent, became the Secretary of the Navy, Prince Su (Ilgl), the 
Secretary of the Interior, Duke Tsai Tse CM <&-), the Secretary of the 
Treasury, Prince Pu Lun (1& M ^), the vSecretary of Agriculture, 
Industries, and Commerce, while Yin Chang ($g H*), Shou Ch'ang 
($3 j|) , and Shou Ch'i (H fr), all Manchus, presided over the depart- 
ments of War, Justice, and the Colonies, respectively. Prince Tsai 
Tao (?f M $0, another brother of the Regent, was the head of the 
General Staff Department (¥f$/fr), and Prince Tsai Chen (U M. =£) , 
the eldest son of Prince Ch'ing, the head of the Advisory Council 
(5R5^i^). Duke Tsai Tse, in addition to his post as Secretary of 
Finance, was the Comptroller-General of the Department of Salt 
Administration (*g $$ g| J& -X £), an office now created for the 
purpose of taking away from the provincial authorities the salt 
monopoly. Scarcely anything like an organized government existed 
in Peking. The princes and nobles vied with each other in the 
accummulaiion of wealth. Peking indeed was a vast salesroom where- 
profitable positions throughout the empire were sold to the highest 
bidder. In their eagerness to enrich themselves, Prince Ch'ing and; 
the two brothers of the Regent acted as if they knew that their 
days were numbered. 

Absolutism Under the Mask of Constitutional Reforms 

—It is true that one of the first edicts issued in the name of 
the Emperor Hsiian T'ung contained a solemn promise to adhere 
strictly to the policy of constitutional reforms as laid clown by 
the previous reign. But the work of the Manchus, durino- the 
last two or three years of their rule, consisted of promises. In 
short, they had never secured so complete a hold upon the 
Government of China as they did under the mask of constitutional 



632 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

reforms. They had never obtained so complete a control over the 
army, navy, and finances of the empire. The Regent, a puppet 
in the hands of his brothers and Prince Ch'ing, was made to act 
the part of an absolute monarch. The Cabinet was responsible 
to him alone, and he could appoint any one to as high a position 
as he pleased; and neither the Provincial Assemblies (fSliJej), 
which opened on October 14, 1909, nor the National Assembly 
(II $k £g) , which opened on October 3, 1910, had any voice in the 
matter. The delegates from the provinces were returned as if 
they were criminals (M ffi. M fi : ). The slightest sign of disloyalty 
was to be " punished to the fullest extent of the law" (H & ^yft). 
The Throne would take its own time to convoke a parliament. 
It was not the people's business to ask for it, or to inquire as to 
the terms on which large sums of money were borrowed from 
foreign powers, or the purposes for which they were to be expended. 
The Government was quite competent to do all these things. 
The best the people could do was to keep silent. The Chinese 
w T ere not ready, the Regent would have the world believe, for a 
Constitutional Government. Perhaps this was true. But they 
were ready for one thing — the very thing the Manchus had 
dreaded — and that was a popular Revolution. 

Sun Wen and the Revolutionary Movement.— Kuang- 
tung, the province that once gave to China a great rebel leader 
in the person of Hung Hsiu-ch'iian, has since produced a great 
revolutionist. The man is Sun Wen ($£3t), better known to the 
people outside of China as Dr. Sun Yat-sen (Hsgfili). In his 
younger days Dr. Sun attended a missionary school in Hong- 
kong, where he prepared himself for the medical profession under 
a certain Dr. Cantile, an Englishman. After graduation, he 
practiced medicine for a short time at both Macao and Hongkong. 
He then gave up his professional labours, in order to take up 
revolutionary work. 

At an early age Dr. Sun was convinced that China must 
be reformed. With this end in view he organized at Canton 
the Hsing Chung Hui (*&»£#), or a Society for the Uplifting 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 633 

of China. He soon saw that under the Manchus no reform 
was possible, and did not hesitate to start a revolution, but it 
failed and many heads fell at the stroke of the executioner's 
axe. That was in 1895. To save his head, the young doctor had 
to flee. He escaped to Hongkong from which point he sailed for 
London. Strange as it may seem, it was in the English capital 
that this revolutionist for the first time fell into the hands of 
of Chinese authorities. While in London Dr. Sun was one day 
decoyed into the Chinese Legation which, according to interna- 
tional law, is Chinese soil. In the Legation he was kept a 
prisoner while his captors awaited an opportunity to send him 
back to China; and was not released until the British Government 
intervened in his behalf. 

During the next fourteen or fifteen years, Dr. Sun travelled 
extensively, visiting all the Chinese centres around the world and 
always preaching revolution. 

The cause of revolution never looked so bright as when 
China sent one party of students after another to Japan. As a 
rule these students, after having come into contact with Dr. Sun 
in Japan, returned to China imbued with revolutionary ideas; 
and were watching quietly to carry out their avowed purpose. In 
Japan Dr. Sun also met Huang Hsing (M H) and many other 
influential members of the various Chinese secret societies. As 
a result of these meetings, the great Revolutionary League, or 
Tungmenghui (f*JJ8L#), came into being. The Tungmenghui 
established newspapers to arouse the Chinese against the Manchus. 
While emissaries were busy in China working among the soldiery 
of the various provinces, others went from one Chinese colony to 
another, soliciting financial support. Thus was the revolutionary 
movement set on foot. The discovery of revolutionary elements 
at Canton and places along the Yangtze, the subsequent whole- 
sale decapitation of suspected persons, the frequent seizure by 
Customs officers of arms and ammunition which unknown persons 
were trying to smuggle into China, the assassination of Governor 
En Ming (M £fc) (Manchu) of Anhui in 1909, and the unsuccessful 



634 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

attempts on the lives of other Manchus of high rank, including 
the Prince Regent himself, are all instances fresh in the minds 
of our readers. These instances show how persistently the 
revolutionary party went to work, how its ramifications had 
pervaded every walk of life, and how many a young man and 
young woman had fearlessly walked into the jaws of death. 
Betrayals, disappointments, cruel deaths, wholesale massacres, — 
these only tended to stimulate the patriots to renewed efforts. 

Unrest at Canton.— The year 1911 foreboded evil, especially 
at Canton. On April 8th the Tartar General, Fu Ch'i (^ ^), com- 
manding the Manchu garrison of Canton, was assassinated. On the 
27th of the same month a party of revolutionists attempted to 
destroy the Viceroy's Yamen with bombs ; but this enterprise was 
ill-timed. The authorities in fact had information as to what was 
coming and were not at all unprepared for the emergency. The 
result was most pathetic. Scores of China's most promising sons 
were arrested and mercilessly executed. The Viceroy, Chang Ming- 
ch'i (3gHl*dt), was heartily commended by the Peking Government 
for his alertness and success in unearthing a revolutionary plot and 
in vanquishing his foes. The Government evidently thought that 
the cruelty of the Viceroy had dealt a severe blow to the movement; 
but nothing was farther from the truth. The revolutionists were 
temporarily suppressed; but they were not discouraged. They 
merely turned their attention from Canton to the Yangtze Valley. 

Nationalization of the Railways. — In the early part of the 
summer of 1911, the Peking Government decided to do something 
with the Yiieh-Han (Canton-Hankow) and Ch'uan-Han (Chengtu- 
Hankow) Railways. Their construction was a necessity for both 
commercial and military purposes, or the people of the several 
provinces concerned would not have formed companies to build 
them. Private companies had failed to build them because they had 
not the money. England, America, Germany and France had built 
their railways because they had the money. With foreign capital 
the work on both the Yiieh-Han and the Ch'uan-Han lines would be 
done more quickly and more satisfactorily. Why should not 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 635 

the Government borrow money and take over the railways from 
private concerns ? That was what the Peking authorities decided to 
do on May 9, 1911 ; and their policy was known as the Nationaliza- 
tion of Trunk Railways (#!& 4fc 2$ liMf). The people of the 
provinces, however, looked at the matter in a very different light. 
The Manchus had borrowed money from foreigners before ; and the 
people had had enough of the heavy burden without ever having 
received the full benefit of the money. What guarantee had they 
this time that the Manchus would not fail to keep their word when 
they had obtained the money, as had so often been done in the past? 
What did the youthful princes care for the railways? All they 
wanted was the money. With such thoughts, the people held meet- 
ings at different places to consider the situation and protests sprang 
up from every quarter. The pessimists persuaded themselves that 
China would -become a second Egypt; and this view was freely 
echoed and re-echoed by the newspapers throughout the land. Unfor- 
tunately all this was without avail. The Government was firm. 
The bankers of America, England, France and Germany were all 
willing to make the loan. The consequence was that a sum of four 
million pounds sterling was contracted for; and the loan agreement 
was signed by the Board of Posts and Communications. 

The Szechuan Revolt.— Now came the crisis. To borrow 
the money against the wishes of the people was bad enough; but to 
take over the railways at a bargain was worse still. The people of 
Szechuan particularly had a just cause of complaint against the 
Central Government. They saw that by the proposed arrangements 
they would have to suffer a loss of three million taels; and they 
naturally retaliated. Government schools throughout many districts 
were deserted, taxes were not paid, and business was suspended. 
The provincial authorities at first took up the popular cause by 
forwarding the people's petition to Peking, and by criticising the 
action of the Board of Posts and Communications before the Throne. 
To their regret this action brought down upon them the displeasure 
of the Regent, and peremptory instructions from Peking soon made 
them change their minds. Chao Erh-feng (SI IB K.), the Viceroy, 



636 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

once so friendly and so sympathetic, became quite the opposite. He 
caused several of the popular leaders to be arrested, among whom 
was the President of the Provincial Assembly of Szechuan, and had 
them brought to his Yamen, where he threatened to have them 
summarily decapitated for sedition. He would no doubt have carried 
out his threat, but for the intervention of the Tartar General. The 
Viceroy then vented his anger upon the innocent crowd that had 
gathered in front of his Yamen to see what was to be done with 
their leaders. Many of the people were killed on the spot by the 
musketry fire of the guards, while the rest were dispersed at the 
point of the bayonet. Thus had the signal for revolt been given by 
the Viceroy himself. In a very short time the whole province 
from end to end was in open rebellion, and Ch'engtu was besieged. 
The sympathy of the other provinces throughout the Yangtze Valley- 
was with the people of Szechuan. As if to add to the misery of the 
people in this great Valley, destructive floods destroyed their crops 
and spread ruin far and wide. In short, by the end of September, 
the railway agitation and the floods had thoroughly prepared the 
ground for revolution. 

Beginning of the Revolution.— When national excite- 
ment was at its height, the attention of the Hankow Municipal 
police was attracted on October 9, 1911, to a Chinese house in 
the Russian Concession by the explosion of a bomb. In the 
house they found revolutionary flags, documents, material for the 
making of bombs, and some persons who had presumably been 
engaged in their manufacture. The revolutionists had planned 
to start a revolution in December ; but the untimely explosion had 
prematurely revealed their presence and plot. Viceroy Jui 
Cheng (J*! rtfc), a Manchu, was promptly communicated with and 
many arrests were made. Among the papers that fell into the 
hands of the Viceroy there was a revolutionary register which 
contained the names of many soldiers of the new army. Knowing 
what punishment was in store for them, and wishing to 
anticipate the authorities, these soldiers tied pieces of white 
cloth around their arms and mutinied. The sappers and 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



687 



miners took the lead and the artillery men followed. The 
mutineers and the revolutionists took possession of all the 
gates of Wuchang during the night of October 10th; but to their 
surprise they found the Viceroy and some of the other high 
officials had escaped. The mutineers went to their comrades, 
who were undecided, and told them they must either fight or join 
them. With the exception of some 200 men who fled, all the 
soldiers chose the latter course. Before the dawn of the next 
day, the revolutionists had gained complete possession of the 

city, and still they had no leader. A 
council was called to elect one; and, in 
that supreme hour, the choice fell upon 
a Colonel of the Imperial army, who 
I was not one of them. That colonel 
was Li Yuan-hung (^TCgS), a man 
whom jealousy and prejudice had kept 
in a subordinate position. From the 
moment Li accepted the high honor 
tendered him, he was virtually the 
leader of the whole revolution, and to 
his soldierly qualities and statesman- 
ship the cause owes much. So 
demoralized were the officials that the 
I.IYLAN-HCXG Revolutionists took both Hanyang and 

Hankow on the 12th of October without resistance. In the arsenal 
of Hanyang, they found large quantities of war material with 
which to carry on their struggle. Thus the Great Revolution 
of 1911 started. With the three strategic points on the Yangtze 
in their possession, the Revolutionists proclaimed a reformed 
government at Wuchang, which undertook to protect foreign 
life and property and to respect the existing treaties so long as 
the foreigners refrained from helping the Manchus. Li Yuan- 
hung became the Tutuh (fp <?), or Military Governor, of Wuchang, 
a position he held until 1913. 




638 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Return of Yuan Shih-k'ai to Power. — Evidently the 
Revolution had completely restored Yuan Shih-k'ai to health. 
At any rate it brought him a new appointment. " Yuan Shih-k'ai 
is hereby appointed Viceroy of the Hukuang Provinces," said an 
Imperial Edict of October 14th, " and from him all the armies of 
the provinces and those engaged in the suppression of the uprising 
shall take their orders." This was the same man who, less 
than three years before, had been declared physically unfit for 
duty in the Grand Council. He had for fifteen years managed and 
trained the Northern Army and was rightly considered a better 
man to deal with the Revolution than General Yin Chang, who 
had received his instruction in Germany. Yin Chang was told to 
return to Peking as soon as Yuan Shih-k'ai should arrive, and he 
did. From the moment the latter consented to take up his new 
appointment, the cause of the Manchus was doomed. The Prince 
Regent wished that Yuan Shih-k'ai would forget that little 
incident of three years before. But how could he? 

Fall of Hanyang. — The army of General Li Yuan-hung, 
though numerically strong, was no match for the Northern Army, 
the product of fifteen years' training. Most of the raw recruits, 
who constituted the major portion of the Revolutionary Arm}', 
enthusiastic as they were, had never handled a rifle before. 
About all they could do with their weapons was to shoot the trained 
soldiers ranked in front of them, and this they actually did on 
several occasions. It was no wonder that such soldiers were 
driven from field to field and dislodged from one position after an- 
other by the Northern Army. On November 25th severe fighting 
took place between the two contending armies around Hankow. 
On the next day the Imperialists captured the Heishan (|£ Ui) and 
Meitzushan (^ ^ Ui) forts. The next morning they captured the 
Tortoise Hill (H ill) and later in the day the whole of Hanyang. 

Revolution Gaining in Strength. — We must now turn our 
attention from Wuchang to other parts of the empire. Since the 
outbreak many other cities had gone over to the Revolutionists. 
Those cities in the order in which they severed their connec- 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 639 

tions with the Manchus were as follows : — Yochow, Changsha, 
Kiukiang, Hukow, Wuhu, Shanghai, Hangchow, Shaohsing, 
Ningpo, Soochow, Wusih, Chinkiang, Tsinan, Canton, Yiinnanfu, 
Chefoo, Mnkden, Foochow, Amoy, and Tatting. With the ex- 
ception of Tsinan, which returned to its former allegiance on 
November 30th, all the cities were permanently lost to them. 
Of course there was nothing like union among them. Each 
did as it pleased in regard to civil government ; but so far as 
the Revolution was concerned the)- all looked to Wuchang for 
guidance and instruction. It was in view of the popularity of the 
Revolutionary movement that Yiian Shih-k'ai hesitated after his 
victory at Hanyang. He knew as well as any body that his army 
could capture Wuchang if he would only give the order. He 
knew, too, that the Revolutionary Cause was destined to win in 
the end. Not a vestige of Imperial authority remained in the 
vast territory south of the Yangtze. 

The Navy Supports the Revolution. — On October 16th, 
Admiral Sah (It £!<*), a native of Foochow, in compliance with 
orders from Peking arrived at Hankow with a squadron of eight 
gunboats. No one at that time knew what he intended to do. Would 
he support the Manchus, or those who tried to free themselves 
from their yoke ? The answer to that question meant the sticcess 
or failure of the outbreak; for the Chinese Navy, young and inef- 
ficient as it was, was powerful enough to crush the Revolution. 
Happily during all the engagements around Hankow, Admiral Sah 
preferred to sit and wait. After November 12th no one had any 
thing further to fear from the big guns that his ships carried. As 
the Admiral steamed away that day his ships were observed to haul 
down the Dragon B'lag and to run up a white one instead. The 
secret was that the Admiral had received an appeal from the 
scholars of Wuchang, Hanyang and Hankow, which had convinced 
him of the justice of the Revolutionary cause. 

Capture of Nanking. — On December 2, 1911, the Revolution- 
ists captured Nanking. For some time there had been much bloodshed 
there owing to the stubborn resistance offered by General Chang 



640 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Hsiin (31 $j). But the capture of Purple Hill on the 1st of December 
made further resistance useless, and Chang Hsiin fled to Pukow. 
Nanking is a city of much more political importance than Wuchang. 
It had given the Taipings a capital and now it gave the Revolutionists 
one. Thus they were fully compensated for the loss of Hanyang. 
The army that captured the city was a motley force consisting of 
different provincial contingents. Consequently it was very hard to 
maintain discipline and order. Looting frequently occurred, and for 
a month or more the inhabitants of Nanking and vicinity enjoyed 
but little rest or peace. 

Panic at Peking. — Be fore the capture of Nanking, a panic had 
taken complete possession of Peking, which had already lost its head. 
At the dictation of the National Assembly, concession after concession 
had been granted. Sheng Hsiian-huai (& !& 1i), (Sheng Kung-pao) , 
the Minister of Posts and Communications, had been summarily dis- 
missed. On October 28th there appeared a most pathetic edict in 
which the young Emperor confessed many faults and promised to 
amend. The National Assembly was asked to draw up a constitution, 
and later the Prince Regent took oath before the Ancestral Temple 
to observe faithfully what the Assembly had drawn up. It consisted 
of a constitution of nineteen articles modelled after that of Great 
Britain. In place of Prince Ch'ing's Cabinet a new one, formed by 
Yuan Shih-k'ai, appeared. The latter was now the most powerful man 
in Peking. He was Premier and Commander-in-Chief of the Army 
and Navy engaged in this civil war. Nothing was too high for him. 
His enemy, who had caused his retirement for three years, was made 
to resign and the resignation was accepted. Besides affixing the 
Imperial Seal to edicts prepared by Yuan Shih-k'ai and holding audi- 
ences, the Empress Lung Yii (H?&), the widow of Kuang Hsu, had 
nothing to do with the government. From this time, the revolution- 
ary game had to be played out not with the Manchus, but with 
Yuan Shih-k'ai. 

Peace Conference. — The revolutionary game was no longer one 
of bullets, but of brains. Both Yuan Shih-k'ai and Li Yuan-hung 
having signified a strong desire for peace, negotiations were formally 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 



G41 



opened on December 8, 1911, in the Municipal Town Hall at 
Shanghai. Tang Shao-yi (fM $3 &) represented the Imperial Govern- 
ment; and Wu Ting- fang (ffi@^), the Revolutionists. Both 
plenipotentiaries are trained diplomats, and both of them had been 
educated abroad. The question before the Conference was whether 




Yuan Shih-k'ai 



China should be a republic or a monarchy. Yiian Shih-k'ai was in 
favor of a limited monarchy with the Manchu Emperor on the 
throne, and proposed to submit the question to a national vote. 
The Revolutionists naturally objected. From the very beginning of 
the Revolution their idea was to establish a Republican Government 
in place of the Manchu Dynasty. This question was finally disposed 
of by the important event which took place at Nanking. After the 
fall of that city, the question before the Conference was changed to 
one of what should be the treatment to be accorded to the Manchus 
after their resignation of power. 



B42 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

Sun Yat-sen Becomes President of a Chinese Republic. — 

At a moment when the peace prospect was by no means bright, a 
man, for fifteen years an exile, was for the first time welcomed back 
to China with open arms. That man was Stin Yat-sen, the one on 
whose head a big price had been set. 

In due time the Provisional Military Assembly at Nanking 
elected him President of the new-born Chinese Republic. Under 
him a Provisional Government was set up at Nanking,, and his 
cabinet included many of the foremost citizens of the South, among 
whom were Wu Ting- fang (Attorney General), Tang Shou-clr'ien 
(H m if ) (Secretary of the Interior), Chang Ch'ien (M #) (Secre- 
tary of Commerce and Industries) and Ts'ai Yiian-p'ei (£g % if) 
(Secretary of Education). The President's first official act was to 
adopt the foreign calendar, making January 1, 1912, the first day of 
the Chinese new year. Roughly speaking, the northern boundary of 
the Republic was the Yangtze; and, generally speaking, the country 
to the north still remained loyal to the Manchus. It seemed as if a 
division between the North and the South would be inevitable. 

Abdication of the Manchus. — To prevent such a division it 
was necessary that the Ta Ch'iug (Manchu) Dynasty should be 
brought to an end. This happy result was at last brought about by 
Yuan Shih-k'ai; and on February 12th, 1912, there appeared what 
has come to be known as the Abdication Edict. This edict was 
undoubtedly the most important one that ever came from " The 
Vermilion Pencil." It was in the name of the Empress Dowager, 
and reads as follows : — 

" Sometime ago the Republican soldiers started an uprising and 
the different provinces responded eagerly ; the whole country seethed 
with revolt, and rum was brought on the people. Ytian Shih-k'ai 
was specially commanded to depute a delegate to discuss the general 
situation with the Republican representative, and to arrange for the 
holding of a National Convention to decide on the form of govern- 
ment. 

" Two months have elapsed, and no practical, or certain, mode 
of operation has been evolved. The North and the South, separated 



OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 643 

as if by a barrier, arc struggling against each other. Merchants 
tarry by the roadside, and soldiers are exposed in the field. So long 
as the form of government remains undecided, so long will the 
minds of the people remain unsettled. 

" The majority of the people in the whole country are in favor 
of a republic. The southern provinces first propounded the idea ; 
and it was afterward supported by the northern generals. Such 
being the general inclination, Heaven's ordinance may be divined. 

" How could I dare to disregard the wishes of the millions for 
the sake of the glory of one family? Judging, therefore, by the 
general aspect without and public opinion within, I specially direct 
the Emperor to bestow the administrative power upon the whole 
country, in order that a Constitutional Republican Government may 
be adopted. 

" Thus will the hearts of the people, weaned with trouble and 
yearning for orderly government, be appeased. I also accord with 
the principles of the ancient sages that the country should be owned 
by the public. 

" At this transitional period from the old order of things to 
the new. there should be a union of the North and the South. Yuan 
Shih-k'ai was formerly elected Premier by the Senate, and he shall 
have full power to organize a Provisional Republican Government. 
He will therefore confer with the Republicans on a united plan of 
action, with a view to securing peace to the people and the country. 

" The territories of the Manchus, Chinese, Mongolians, Moham- 
medans and Tibetans shall be consolidated into a Great Republic of 
China. The Emperor and I will retire into leisure to pass easily 
through the months and years and to see the consummation of wise 
government. This will indeed be excellent ! " 

After the abdication the Emperor was to receive an annual allow- 
ance of $4,000,000, to reside in the Forbidden City or the Summer 
Palace, and to continue to offer sacrifices at his Ancestral Temples 
and Mausoleums. The Republic is to extend to him such treatment 
as is accorded to a foreign sovereign, to guarantee to him all his 
rights to personal property, and to protect his Ancestral Temples 



044 OUTLINES OF CHINESE HISTORY 

and Mausoleums. The Republic also agreed to complete the work 
on the Mausoleum of Kuang Hsii and to accord his remains an 
Imperial funeral at the expense of the public. No new eunuchs 
are to be taken in by the Imperial family, and the princes and nobles 
may retain their titles and enjoy their private property. 

Union of the North and the South. — In a short time, 
President Sun Yat-sen abdicated in favor of Yuan Shih-k'ai. The 
same body that had elected Sun, now chose Yuan President of the 
Republic which was no longer bounded on the north by the Yangtze. 
Its boundaries are co-extensive with the Chinese Empire of yester- 
day. Yuan Shih-k'ai was evidently the man for the head of such a 
republic, and no better choice could have been made. 

Conclusion. — Into the family of nations the Republic of 
China has been born. History is not to predict. Whether the present 
form of government is adapted to the conditions in the country, 
whether the change is really for the better, whether the events of 
the French Revolution are to be repeated in China, whether the 
Republic will be used by some one as a stepping stone to imperial 
power after the manner of Napoleon, or whether the different racial 
elements will work together — the future alone can reveal. The prob- 
lems before the Republic to-day, as might be expected, are sufficient 
to tax the greatest statesmanship. To bring order out of the chaos, 
the Republic needs constructive ability of the highest type. 






THE END 



INDEX 



Abak, 3S5. 

Abaka, 217. 

Aboriginal Tribes, 441. 

Aborigines, war with the, 1; in Chon 

Dynasty, 29; of China, 413. 
Admiral Courbet, 568. 
Admiral Dupre, 567. 
Admiral Hope, 525. 
Admiral Ito, 587. 
Admiral Sah, 639. 
A-Fong Palace, 65. 
A Fu Jung, 491. 
Ahamed, 222. 
Aid system, 24. 
Ai Shan, 215. 

Aisin Ghiorroh's, 273, 274. 
Aisin Koroh, 271. 
Aisin Kurun, ]85. 
Ai Ti (Han), 80. 
Ai Tsung (Sung), 204. 
Akbar, 138. 
Ak Musjed, 552. 
A'Ko, 409. 
Akuei, 426, 450. 
Akutta, 185. 
Ala, 240. 
Alamashun, 137. 

Alasban Mongols, origin of the, 385. 
Albazin, founding of the city, 376. 
Aleppo, 206. 
Alexander Metello Songay Menzes, 

415. 
Algebra, 402. 
Alien ministers, 39. 
Alikuan, 450. 
Alintsin, 422. 
Almalid, 202. 
Alompra, 448. 
Altai, 309. 

Aluhchuha ( |5pJ % $£ Kg) river, 270. 
Alute, 550. 

American Treaty, 505. 
Amherst Mission, the, 482, 483. 
Amogha, 156. 
Amoy, loss of, 370. 
Amur River, 172. 
Amusana, 421, 424. 
An Ching Hsii, 148. 
Anchulaku Route, 281. 
Ancient Literature, 93. 
An Fu, 442. 
An-i, 10. 



Ankchuku, 269. 

Anking, fall of, 533. 

An Lu-shan, Rebellion by, 146. 

Annam, annexation of, 237; French 
relations with, 566. 

Antehai, 546. 

Anterior Chao, (Htf ffi) 110. 

Anterior Tibet, 391. 

An Ti (East Han), 91. 

Anti-eunuch Movement, 9f. 

Anti-Missionary Riots, 593. 

Antiochia Margiana, 89. 

Antumn, 217. 

An Tung, 90. 

Aokhan, 310. 

Apoki, 172, 270. 

Aratan, 119. 

Arihbuga, 211, 212. 

Armauia, 216. 

Assistant Secretaries, 312. 

Astrology, 43. 

Astronomical Department, 352. 

Astronomy, 5, 56. 

Autumn Minister, or Minister of Juris- 
prudence, 23. 



B 



Babylonia, 216. 

Bactria, 76, 78. 

Baidarik, 417. 

Balasaghun, 188. 

Balkh, 206. 

Bank note, 228. 

Banner, 282. 

Bardar, 205. 

Barin. 310. 

Barkar, 216. 

Baron Gros, 520. 

Bashbalig, 188. 

Barsu, 310. 

Baryenbatu, 486. 

Batalu, 310. 

Batang, 430. 

Battle of Chaumuhtao, 388. 

Battle of Chi Pi, 99. 

Battle of Huang T'ien Tang, 190. 

Battle of San Ho, 530. 

Battle of the Fei, 111. 

Battle of Ulangputung, 387. 

Battling Ram, 164. 

Batu, 205. 

Baturu, the order of, 283. 



INDEX 



Bayan, 213. 

Begs, 427. 

Bela, 202. 

Bell, Mr., 405. 

Benzing Khan, 552. 

Bere, 273, 312. 

Bere Chuying, 280. 

Bere Mingan, 279. 

Bere Pulo 324. 

Bere Taishan, 279, 2S4, 290. 

Bhodon Phra, 452. 

Big Seal, 66. 

Black Flags, 567. 

Black Mountaineers, 385. 

Block printing, invention of, 171. 

Board of Admiralty, 573. 

Bodhisattwa Manchusiri, 393. 

Bokhara, 74, 202. 

Bonham, Sir G., 518. 

Book of Change, 50, 56. 

Book of Odes 54, 56, 57, 63. 

Book of Records, 6, 17, 56. 

Bourborlon, M. de, 524. 

Boxer Uprising, the, its origin, 600; 
revival of, 600; spread of, 601; siege 
of the legations, 606; 

Boycott of American goods, 617. 

Brahmanism, 85, 86. 

Bremer, Sir Gordon, 496. 

Bronze, 240. 

Browne, H., 558. 

Bruce, Mr., 522. 

Brunit, 426. 

Buddha, 84. 

Buddhidharma, 117. 

Buddhisatras, 155. 

Buddhism, introduction of, into China, 
84; description of, 85, 86; the spread 
of, 116 ; prosperity of Buddhism, 119 
encouraged by Empress Hu, 319 
prosperity under Liang Wu Ti, 120 
Confucianists* opposition, 120; in- 
fluence of, upon Chinese civilization, 
121; under the Tang Dyn., 155; 
under the Mings, 242. 

Buddhojanga, 117. 

Bulgar, 203. 

Burkham Mountain, 197. 

Burlingame, Hon. Anson, 547. 

Burlingame Mission, 547. 

Burmah Convention, 573. 

Burmah, expedition into, 223; invasion 
of, 336; 1st expedition against, 449; 
2nd expedition, 450. 

Burning of Classics, 61. 

Buyashili, 238 



Cabinet, 23, 24. 
Calendar, 56, 156. 
Caliphate of Bagdad, 



207. 



Caliphs, ]41. 

Calligraphers, 124. 

Cambulic, 212. 

Candahar, 118. 

Canton, unrest at, 634. 

Captain Elliot, 494. 

Captain Lang, resignation of, 580. 

Cassini Convention, 594. 

Catherine, 429. 

Catherine I, 414. > 

Catholicism, progress of, 207. 

Cenghe, 384. 

Censorate, 312. 

Central Tibet, 391. 

Ceylon, 87, 118, 119. 

Chabar, 218. 

Chagatai Khanate, 216. 

Chahan Tolo Nor, 415. 

Chahar, 310. 

Ch'ai Ta-chi, 375. " 

Chakhan (^ g|) Nomen Han, 437. 

Chala, 282. 

Chamdo, 391. 

Champa, 218, 219. 

Chang Ch'eng-ying, 237. 

Chang Chia Hutukhtu, 437. 

Chang Ch'ien, 642. 

Chang Chien-chih, 144. 

Chang Ch'ien, his mission to Hsi Yueb, 

74, 75, 77. 
Chang Ching, 249. 
Chang Chio, leader of the Yellow 

Turkans, 92. 
Chang Chung, 191. 

Chang Hsien-chung, 263, 325, 326, 334. 
Chang Hsiin, 640 
Chang Huang-yen, 342. 
Chang I, 41. 

Chang Kuang-ssii, 418, 445, 446. 
Chang Kuo-liang, 530. 
Chang Ling, 486, 487. 
Chang Lo Lao, 172. 
Chang Pan, battle of, 99. 
Chang Pan-ch'ang, 189. 
Chang P'ei-lun, 570. 
Chang Shan, battle of, 303. 
Ch'ang Sheng Chun, 537. 
Chang Shih-ch'eng, 226. 
Chang T'a, 367. 

Ch'ang Tan-Kuei, 470,471, 472. 
Chang Tao-ling, the Taoist Patriarch, 

93. 
Chang Ti (Han), 88. 
Chang Ting-yii, 456. 
Chang Tsung-yii, 546. 
Chang Tung-ch'ang 333. 
Chang Yao, 562. 
Chang Yi, 77. 
Chang Yin-huan, 589. 
Chang Yung, 368. 
Chang Yiin Ian, 534. 
Chao (ffi) 38, 41. 



INDEX 



Ch'ao Ch'ao, Han Hsien Ti fell into 
the hand of, 97 ; his early life, 
98 ; defeated by Sun Chuan at Chi 
Pi, 09 ; at Hsu Chang, 100 ; his death, 
102. 

Chao Erh-feng, 636. 

Chao Hsiang Ti, 153. 

Chao Hsien, 137. 

Chao Hui, 4 24. 

Chao Kao, 67, 68. 

Chao K'uang-mei, 176. 

Chao K'uang-yin, rise of, 171 '> became 
emperor, 174. 

Chao Liang-tung, 367, 368. 

Chao-ling, the peace of, 33. 

Ch'ao P'ei, 102. 

Chao P'u 174. 

Chao T'ao, 442. 

Chaotsu, 274. 

Chao Tsung (T'ang), 152 

Ch'ao Wen-hua, 249. 

Charlemagne, 138. 

Chefoo Convention, 558. 

Ch'en ($0 113, 115, 125. 

Ch'en Ch'iao, mutiny of, 171. 

Chen Chih-lung, 32 3, 327, 340. 

Ch'en Chin, 340, 344, 365, 370. 

Ch'en Chi-yu, 259. 

Chen Chu, 136. 

Chen Chu Kun-pi, 136. 

Chen Chung, 91. 

Cheng Ch'eng-kung, 340. 

Cheng Ho, 237. 

Cheng Ching, raids of, 370 ; death of, 
371. 

Clreng- Hsueh-ch'e, 539. 

Clreng Hua, 243. 

Cheng Hung-k'uei, 324. 

Cheng-p'u, tlie battle of, 34. 

Cheng Te, 245. 

Ch'eng T'ien Fu, 345. 

Cheng Ti (Han), 80. 

Cheng Tsu-clTen, 507. 

Ch'eng Tsu (Ming), 235, 23S. 

Ch'en Hsin-chia, 305. 

Ch'en Hua-ch'eng, 503. 

Chenkungchap, 423. 

Chen Kuo-hung, 501. 

Ch'en Pa-hsien, 115. 

Chen Tsung (Sung), 177. 

Ch'en Yu-ch'eng, 530. 

Ch'en Yu-liang, 226. 

Chepe, 202. 

Cheptsandampa, 395. 

Chereng, 422. 

Cherim League, 309. 

Che Tsung (Sung), 183. 

Ch'i (^), his accession, 12. 

Ch'i (^),8, 15. 

Chi (j£), 20. 

Ch'i (36) ,.8, 20. 

Chi («), 66. 



Chi (gfc), Li Wang of Chou Dyn., fled 
to, 27. 

Chi (5lf ), the rise of, 32 ; its decline, 33 ; 
changed into Tien Chi, 38 ; annexed 
by Ch'in, 59. 

Chia Ch'ing, 476, 478, 480. 

Chia Hsing Fu, 242. 

Chia Ku, 44. 

Chia Ssu-tao, 211. 

Ch'iang, 77. 

Chiang, 108. 

Chiang-hou, 27, 28. 

Chiang Kuei, 331, 331. 

Chiang Wei, 104, 

Chiao Tzu, 228. 

Chiayung Baturu, 284. 

Chi Chow, Yuan Cbao's escape to, 96. 

Chief Guardian of the Empire, 132. 

Chieh (#J), 108. 

Chieh (|j|),his accession, 13 j died in 
exile at Nan-chao, 14. 

Chieh Li, 136. 

Ch'ien Liu, 153. 

Ch'ien Lung, accession of, 419; wars 
and conquests, 430; campaign against 
Tachinch'uan, 1st, 446; 2nd, 451; 
expedition against Burmah, 1st, 449 ; 
2nd, 450; war with Annam, 452; his 
civil government, 455 ; his abdication, 
464. 

Ch'ien Ts'ang, 391. 

Chien Yeh, 106. 

Chihar, 248. 

Chih-hsin, 365. 

Chih Huang Ti, conquest of the six 
states, 59; he became Emperor, 60: 
burning of Classics, 61 ; building the 
great Wall, 63 ; his death, 64. 

Chih Kang, 547. 

Chih Sheng, 349. 

Ch'i Hsiang, 536. 

Ch'ihsinlang, 312, 347. 

Chih Ti (Han), 91. 

Chih-yu, 3, 4. 

Chilama, 311. 

Ch'i Ming Khan, 135. 

China, origin of the word, 1, 60 ; re- 
union of, 175. 

Chinchow, fall of, 304. 

Chin Chow ($j <JtI), fall of, 100. 

Ch'in Dynasty, 58, 68. 

Chinese, 1. 

Chinese civilization, 20. 

Chinese currency, 459. 

Chinese geomancy, 123. 

Chinese legations, establishment of ; 
559. 

Chinese missions to Russia, 414. 

Chinese philosophers, 43. 

Chinese porcelain, 252. 

Chinese Turkestan, 74, 552. 

Ching Chiao, 157. 



INDEX 



Ch'ing Hsiang, r 486, 487. 

Ching Te Chen, 252. 

Chins- Ti (Min°), 239. 

Ching Ti (Han), 73. 

Ching Ti, K. of N. Chow, 325, 239. 

Chingtsu, 275, 277. 

Chin Kuang-tsu, 366. 

Ch'in Kuei, .192, 193, 194. 

Chin Kuo, 271. 

Chino-Japanese War, Corean campaign, 

585 ; battle of the Yalu, 586; invasion 

of China, 587 ; causes and effects of 

China's defeat, 591. 
Chin or Nu-chen, early history and 

rise of, 185; alliance between Sungs 

and, 186; hostility between Sung 

and, 188; treaty with the Sungs, 193; 

her downfall, 2"09. 
Chin Sheng-huan, 33]. 
Chin Shin, first instituted, 131; degree 

of, in T'ang Dyn., 163. 
Chinshun, 561. 
Ching T'ien (#ffl), introduction of 

the system, 24 ; revival of the, 82. 
Chin, (^-) the rise of, 33; defeated 

Ch'u in 632 E.C., 34; Civil war, 38; 

its decline, 39. 
Ch'in Tsung (Sung), 188, 189. 
Chio Hua Tao, 297. 
Chi-san, 20. 
Ch'i Shan, 497. 

Chi-tze, made king of Corea, 21. 
Chiu Chuan, 77. 
Ch'iu Fu, 23S. 
Chi Wang-shih, 471. 
Ch'i Wu Ti, 121. 
Ch'i-ying, 503, 518. 
Chi Yiin, 458. 
Cho-lu, battle of, 3. 
Chosores, 135. 
Chou, dynasty, 20-42. 
Chou (|t); Bis accession, 18; defeated 

by Chou Fa, 19. 
Chou Fa, 19. 
Chou Ju, defeated Ch'ao Ch'ao at Chi 

Pi, 99. 
Chou Li, 82. 
Chou Yu-chi, 260. 
Chow, 24. 

Christianity, spread of, 264, 
Chuang Hsiang Wang, 58, 59. 
Chuang Tze, 116. 
Chuan Hsu, 5. 
Chu Chuan-chung, 152. 
Chii Fou, K'ang Hsi visited, 404. 
Chu Heteh, 426. 
Chu Hsi, 46, 233, 402. 
Chu FIsien Chen, 193. 
Chu I-Kuei, rebellion of, 374. 
Chu Ko-liang, 102, 103, 104. 
Chu Lo, 374. 
Chiinchich'u, 348, 411. 



Chun-erh, Duke Wen of Chin, 33 34 

Ch'ung- Cheng, 257, 258, 261. 

Ch'ung Hou, 549, 563. 

Ch'ung Te, 311. 

Chung Ts'ang, 391. 

Chung Tsung (T'ang), banished by 
Empress Wu, 143 ; his restoration, 144. 

Chu-shen, 276. 

Chii Shih-ssu, 329, 330, 333. 

Ch'u, (3g) the rise of, 30, 31; defeated 
by Chin, 34; conquered Yiieh, 35: 
annexed by Ch'in, 59. 

Chu Wen, 152, 168. 

Chu Yuan-chang, the rise of, 226 ; war 
against the Yiians, 227 ; his accession, 
232. 

Civil Government of the Manchus, 312. 

Classes, the four, 48. 

Coal Hill, Ch'ung Cheng died at, 261. 

Cobdo, 385. 

Cochin-China, 74, 219. 

Co-Hong System, 462, 492. 

Col. (then Major) Peter Gordon, 538. 

Col. Younghusband's mission, 627. 

Commander of Rebels, 199. 

Compass, invention of, 3. 

Complication of 1882, 583. 

Confucianism, founded by Confucius, 
43; its influence, 46 ; Confucianism 
explained, 53 ; its first contamination, 
93; its decline, 116; Conf. under the 
Sungs, 195. 

Confucius, born atLu, 44; minister, 44: 
his wandering life, 45; his death, 45 ; 
honors to, 349. 

Conquest of Mo-pei, 382. 

Consulates, establishment of, 559. 

Convention of Tientsin, 583. 

Copper money, first use of, 4. 

Corea, Chi-tze elected ruler of, 21; con- 
quest of, by Han W T u Ti, 78; con- 
quered by Fu Chien, 111; invaded by 
Jui Yang Ti, 128 ; campaign of T'ang 
T'ai Tsung against, 137; her relation 
with Manchuria, 306; Corean history, 
581; 

Cossacks, 376. 

Count Goloyken, 483. 

Count Putiatin, 521. 

Coup d'etat of 1898, 599. 

Courbet, Admiral, 568. 

Currency, 165. 

Customs, 20. 



Daijis, 415. 
Dalai Lama, 391. 
Damascus, 206. 
Darchi, 420. 
Darkness, age of. 45 
Davatsi, 420. 



INDEX 



Dayan Khan, 247, 310. 

Deer-Tower, 19. 

Delbeck. 238. 

Deluge, 6. 

Desert of Gobi, 308. 

Diamond Sutra, 117. 

Diba, 394. 

Diplomatic Relations with the Rus- 
sians, 377. 

Divisions of Castes, 48. 

Djalaid, 309. 

Djarud, 310, 

Djiuchi, 202. 

Dog Barbarians or Dog Jung, 26, 28, 29. 

Dorgun, 3 IS. 

Downfall of the Sung Dynasty, 213. 

Dress, Tang Dyn., 1(35; Manchus, 316. 

Drury, 4S2. 

Dualism, 50. 

Duke Chao. 40. 

Duke Chao, government of the "Joined 
Peace," 27. 

Duke Hsiang of Sung, defeated by Ch'u, 
33. 

Duke Huan, 50. 

Duke Huan of Chi ^, 32, 33, 50. 

Duke K-'ang, 3«. 

Duke Mu of'Ts'in, 54. 

Duke of Ch ; i, 38. 

Duke of Chou, as prime minister of 
Wu Wang, 22; perfection of the 
Feudal System, 22; government of 
the •' Joined Peace", 27. 

Duke of Pleasure, 104. 

Duke Shiao, 39, 40. 

Duke Ting, 44. 

Dupre, Admiral. 567. 

Durgun (£ ^ M) , the Manchu regent, 
262. 

Dzarssaktu Khanate, 383. 

Dzungar, 384. 

Dzungar, expedition against, 416. 



E.arthly Minister, or Minister of the 

Treasury, 23. 
Eastern Chin, 112. 
Eastern Han, 83. 
Eastern Persia, 118. 
Eastern process, 402. 
Eastern Tsin, 110,111. 
Eastern Wei (^ i&), 113. 
Educational system of Chou Dyn., 55. 
Education, system of, T'ang Dyn., 163; 
Eight Banners, 282. 
Eight Diagrams, 479. 
Eight Legs, 233. 

Eight Princes, Rebellion of the, 108. 
Eight Tigers. 246. 
Eketango. 5 V 9. 
Eleuths 383, 424. 



Elliot, Captain, 494. 

Elliot, George, 496. 

Elixir of life, ^5. 

Emil, 216. 

Emperor of Cheng, 132. 

Emperor of Liang, 132. 

Empress Anna Ivanovna, 414. 

Empress Chih, 108. 

Empress Hu, Buddhism encouraged by, 
119. 

Empress Teng, 91. 

En Ming, the assassination of, 634. 

Erdeni Chao, battle of, 417. 

Erh Shih, 60, 68. 

Essay, 233. 

Essen, 239. 

Euclid, translation of, 264. 

Eunuchs, theit origin, 49; growth of 
power of the, 84 ; their ascendancy, 
90; anti-eunuch movement, 91; exter- 
mination of, 94; rule of, T'ang Dyn., 
151; under T'ang Dyn., 164; early 
history of, under Ming Dyn., 244; 
suppression of, 348. 

Europe, history of, 20. 

Ever-Victorious Army, Disbandment 
of the, 539. 

Exemption Decree of 1712, 404. 

Exorcism, 54. 



Fa Chia, 50. 

Fa Hsien, 118. 

Fancha, 274. 

Fang Chow, 143. 

Fang Szu, 64, 93. 

Fang Yuan-ling, 133. 

Faunier Treaty, 570. 

Feilinko Baturu, 284. 

FeiTi (Han), 94. 

Fei Yang-ku, 388. 

Feng Hsi-fan, 372. 

Feng Sheng, 232. 

Fengshou, 321. 

Feng Shui, 123. 

Feng Tao, 172. 

Feordore Golvin, 379. 

Ferdinand Andrade, 253. 

Fergana, 78. 

Feudalism, beginning of the system, 22; 
description of the system, 23; feud- 
alism at its height, 31-42; abolishment 
of the system, 60; its revival, 71; 

Feudal period, 55. 

First War with Dzungaria, 382. 

Firuz, 141. 

Fish caskets, 166. 

Five Classics, 233. 

Five Dynasties, epoch of the, 168, 173. 

Five Elements, influence of, 106. 

Five Sovereigns, 5. 



INDEX 



Five Supreme Powers, 32. 

Flight of the Court. 60S. 

Flowery Kingdom, 1. 

Flying Money, 228. 

Fo'reign Policy of Shen Tsung, 181. 

Former Ch'in K ffi f£), 110,111,112. 

Formosa, occupied by Koxinga, 343; 
the government of, 373: Japan tries 
to occupy, 553; revolt in, 591. 

Fort Provintia, 343. 

Fort Zealandia, 343, 344. 

Four Books, 233. 

Franciscans, the coming of the, 221. 

Franco Chinese Treaty of 18S5, 571. 

Franco-Chinese War, causes of the war, 
566; French reverse at Liangsan, 570; 
destruction of Chinese fleet; 570; 

French Treaties, 505. 

Fu-cha, K. of Wu, 35. 

Fu Chien, K. of Former Ch'in, 110, 
111. 

Fu Ch'i. the assassination of, 634. 

Fuertan, 416. 

Fugitive Slave Law, 354. 

Fu Heng, 447, 450. 

Fu Hsi, or Po Hsi, conqueror of an- 
imals, 2, 3. 

Fu Hung-lieh, 366, 368. 

Fu K'ang-an 375, 434, 453, 468. 

Fu Nai, 469. 

Funeral Rites, 47. 

Fung Yiin-shan, 506, 515. 

Fu Xing, 468. 

Fushan, 250. 

Fushun, battle of, 287. 

Fu Su, 67. 

Futa, 426. 

Fu Wang, proclaimed Emperor, 321; 
capture of, 324. 

Fu-yii, 269. 

Fu Yiieh. 18. 



Galdan, 384, 386, 389,416. 

Galehtengpo, 469, 476. 

Galik, 208. 

Galund's Party, 398. 

Gaudamsiddha, 156. 

Gegen, 224. 

General Marsai, 417. 

Georgia, 203. 

Gerlillon, 380. 

Ghanzni, 202. 

Ghoros, 309. 

Goa, 253. 

God, 53. 

Goddess of the silk industry, 5. 

Golden Age, 9. 

Goloyken Mission, the, 482. 

Gordon, Col. Peter, 538. 

Gough, Sir Hugh, 499. 



Government by the people, 6. 
Government, system of, Chou Dynasty, 

23, T'ang Dyn., 164; 
Governor, 234. 
Governors, insubordination of the, 

T'ang Dyn., 150. 
Grand Canal, construction of, by Yang 

Ti, 127. 
Grand Council, institution of the, 348 

411. 
Grand Councillors, 412. 
Grand Guardian, 23. 
Grand Instructor, 23. 
Grand Tutor, 23. 
Grant, 554. 

Great Army of Kiangnan, 530. 
Great Aimy of Kiangpei, 530. 
Great Change, map of the, 196. 
Great Conveyance, 393. 
Great development (^ f^) (Mahayana) 

118. 
Great Manoeuver of Tolonor, 387. 
Great Sage, 47. 

Great Shun (;*; )lg) Dynastv, 260. 
Great Wall, 60, 63, 66, 67, 128. 
Greek clement in Flindoo civilization, 

121. 
Green Camps, 351. 
Gulukpa, 393. 
Gun Temur, 238. 
Gur Khan, 188. 
Gushih (M 1&) Khan, 415. 
Gushi Khan, 384. 

H 

Haidu, 205. 

Hai Hsi (±£ T), battle of, 7u. 

Hai Lan-ch 4 a, 375. 

Hai Ling. 503. 

Hai si Wei, conquest of, 279. 

Halliday Macartney, 559. 

Haluga, 216. 

Hami, capture of, 87, 88. 

Han (|f), 38. 

Han Ch'in-fu, 125. 

Han Hsien Ti, 97. 

Flang Yu, struggle with Lin Pang, 69; 

his death, 70. 
Han Hsin, 72. 
Han Ju, 196. 
Han Kuei-cho, 195. 
Han Lin-erh, 469. 
Hanlin Yiian, 312, 347. 
Hanoi, 141. 
Han Shih-tsung, 190. 
Han Wu Ti, 84, 137. 
Han Yane, 33, 68, 69 
Han Yii, 156, 162. 
Hao, 22. 
Hao-shih, 269. 
Hara Holin, 310. 



INDEX 



Haroun Al Raschid, 138. 

Hart, Sir Robert, 540, 576. 

Hartu Ula, 275. 

Hasar, 309. 

Hata Bere, 279. 

Hatashan, 423. 

Hay, John.. 596. 

Heavenly Minister, or Minister of the 

Interior, 23. 
Heavenly Reason Rebellion, the, 480. 
Heavenly Reason Society, 480. 
lleilungkiang, 269. 
Hei-shui, 269.' 
Henri Riverei, 568. 
Hichiku, 219. 
Hideyoshi, 250. 
Hiengun, 268. 
Himalayas, 391. 

Hindoo Calendar, adoption of the, 156. 
Ho Chin, murdered bv eunuchs, 94. 
Ho Ch'un, 530. 
Ho Chu-ping. 77. 
Hodiichies, 426. 
Ho Hsi, 74, 77, 132, 149. 
Ho Je-pi. 125. 
Ho Kuei-ch'ing, 52], 532. 
Ho Lin, 468. 
Holy Duke, 349. 

Hongkong, opium smuggling in, 575. 
Hope, Admiral, 525. 
Horizontal Unionists, 41. 
Ho Shen, 474, 476. 
Ho Shih-hsien, 292. 
Ho T'eng-chiao, 323, 325, 329, 332. 
Ho Ti (Han), 90. 
Ho Tung Nor, 417. 
Hou Chin, rebellion bv, 115. 
Hou Chu ($0, 115, 126. 
Hou Chun-chi, Kaochang conquered by, 

136. 
Hou Fei, 50. 
Hou Ts'ang, 391. 
Hsia, 132. 
Hsia calendar, 57. 
Hsia Dynasty, 10-14. 
Hsiang, 13. 

Hsiang Yung, 512, 514. 
Hsiao Chao, 439. • 
Hsiao Chao-kuei, 515. 
Hsiaochinch'uan, 446. 
Hsiao Hsien, 130, ]32. 
Hsiao Ming Ti, K. of N. Wei, 119. 
Hsiao Tsung (Ming), 245. 
Hsiao Wu Ti, K. of N. Wei, 112. 
Hsia Pei, 166. 
Hsieh Fu-ch'eng, 415. 
Hsich'ung, battle of, 326. 
Hsieh Yen-to, 135. 
Hsien Ching district, 280. 
Hsien Feng, 513, 526, 530, 535. 
Hsien Pei, 89, 108. 
Hsien Ti, 94, 97, 98, 102. 



Hsientsu, 277. 

Hsien Tsung (T'ang), 148, 151. 

Hsien Tsung (Ming), 245. 

Hsien Wen Ti, K. of N. Wei, 119. 

Hsien Yang, Capital of Ch'in Dynasty, 41 . 

Hsien-yu, 109. 

Hsi Feng K'oU, 386. 

Hsi Hsia, early history of, 178 ; at her 
height, 179; further trouble with 
Sungs, 182. 

Hsi-hsiang-chi, 230. 

Hsi Hsiian, 360. 

Hsi Nieh, 546. 

Hsi Tsung (T'ang), 152. 

Hsi Tsung (Ming), 256. 

Hsi-tze, 35. 

Hsi Yiieh, Chang Chien's mission to, 74 ; 
division of, 75; annexed by Hsiung- 
nu, 183; Buddhism from, 84; Pan 
Chao's mission to, 88; trade with the 
West through, 90; as road of Chinese 
Pilgrims, 118; Jui Yang Ti's envoy 
to, 127. 

Hsin Lo, 137, 138, 270. 

Hsin Ts'ai, 163, 401. 

Hsing, 48. 

Hsing Ching, 275. 

Hsing Chung Hui, organization of the, 
633. 

Hsingtsu, 275. 

Hsiung-nu Khan in Pei Lit, 19. 

Hsiung-nu, origin of, 62; invasion of, 
72; conquest of, 76; decline of, 79; 
division of, 87; relation of, with 
Eastern Kan, 88; disappearance of 
Northern, 89. 

Hsiung Ting-pi, 292, 295. 

Hsiian Fu, 234, 260, 442. 

Hsiian Ho Htta Pu, 183. 

Hsiian Lu, 240. 

Hsiian Te, 240. 

Hsiian Ti (Wei), 104. 

Hsiian Ti, K. of N. Chow, 125. 

Hsiian Tsung (T'ang), 148. 

Hsiian T'ung, accession of, 629. 

Hsiian Wang, 27, 28. 

Hsiian Wei, 442. 

Hsu Fu, settled in Japan, 65. 

Hsu Hung-ju, 469. 

Hsii Kuang-ch'i, 264. 

Flsii Kuang-chin, 518. 

Hsu Shen, wrote Shuo Wen (jfft %), 
'93. 

Hsiissii, 321. 

Hsu Ta, 232. 

Hsu Tai, 59. 

Hsu T'ien-te, 472. 

Huai Chiin, 539. 

Huaihai, 322. 

Huai Ti (Tsin), 109. 

Huang Chueh Monastery, 226. 

Huang Hsing, 633. 



Vlll 



INDEX 



Huang Lung Fu, 185. 

Huang Pin-ch'ing, 339. 

Huang Tao-chow, 291. 

Huangti, war with Chih-yu, 3 ; became 

emperor, 4; his inventions, 5. 
Huan Ti (Han), 91, 93. 
Hubilhan, 393. 
Hit Hai, 68. 
Hu Han-hsie, 80. 
Hui Hui, 160. 

Hui-ki, Yu (^) buried at, 12. 
Hui Ti (Han), 73. 
Hui Ti (Tsin), 108. 
HuiTi (Ming), 235. 
Hui Tsung (Sung), 183, 188, 189. 
Hui Tzii, 228. 
Hui Yuan Ch'eng, 427. 
Hu Kuang, 30. 
Hu Lin-i, 515, 
Huluga, 206. 
Hulukhtu, 395. 
Hundred Families, 48. 
Hungary, 205. 

Hung Ch'eng-ch'ou, 305, 318, 327. 335. 
Hung Fu-t'ien, capture of, 541, 542. 
Hung Hsiu-chuan, 506, 541. 
Hung Jen-fa, 541. 
Hung Jen-ta, 541. 
Hungwenyiian, 312. 
Hung Wu (Ming), 232. 
Huns, 76, 134. 
Hurha river, 280. 
Huszeoludo, 188. 



I 

I (P^), 13. 

Iching, 502. 

Idolatry, 53. 

Ignatie'ff, 524. 

I Ho Ch'tian, 480. 

I Hsing., 156. 

Hi, 216. 

I-ling, battle of, 102. 

Ilipu, 497, 503. 

Ilkhan, 134, 135, 206. 

I-lo, 185. 

I Lou, 269. 

Imperial Audience, 1st, 550. 

Imperial Calendar, 352. 

India, conquest of, 137. 

Institutions, 20. 

Intercalary months, 6. 

Interpreters, 312. 

Invasion of China, 587. 

Invasion of Tibet by Goorkhas, 1st 

432 ; 2nd, 433. 
Iron-Chain Bridge, 336. 
Iron Crown Princes, 356. 
Irtish, 384. 
Ishan, 499, 500 
Islam, 159. 



Ismaloff, M., 405, 414. 

I-ti, discovery of intoxicating spirits, 11. 

Ito, Admiral, 587. 

I Yin, 16, 17. 



Jalaleddin, 202. 

Japan, Hali Fu first settled at, 65; her 

relation with Corea, 138; Kublai's 

invasion, 219: piratical expedition, 

249; war with Mings, 250; 
Japanese Lacquer, 241. 
Jargatai, 202, 205. 
Jarlair, 383. 
Java, 140. 
Jaxartes, 202, 216. 
Jebabada, 119. 
Jehangir, 486, 487. 
Jehol, 421, 
Jen Chu, 546. 
Jenghis Khan, his conquests, 197-203; 

his death, 203. 
Jen Tsung, 224. 
Jen Tsung (Sung), 178. 
Jesuit Missionaries, success of the, 

352. 
Joannes Adam Schaal, 265, 352. 
John Hay, policy of, 596. 
Joint Regency, 1st, 535 : 2nd, 555. 
Jou Jau, 112, 134. 
Jui Cheng, 637. 
Jui Tsung (T'ang), 143. 
Julai, 314. 
Jung Lu, 601. 



K 

Kablons, 435. 

Kabul, 197. 

Kaidu Khan, revolt of, 216. 

Kainshka, 118. 

Kaisun, 224. 

K'ai Yuan, 145. 

K'ai Yiian T'ung Po, 165. 

Kalkas, beginning of the, 248. 

Kalmucks, 428. 

Kanchow, fall of, 327. 

K'ang, 391. 

K'ang Chii, 75. 

K'ang Hsi, accession of, 358; his diplo- 
matic relations with the Russians, 
377; peace negotiations with the Rus- 
sians, 379; his conquest of Mo-pei, 
382; conquest of Tibet, 391; his 
character, 400; his patronage of 
Literature 400; his travels, 403; dis- 
inherits his heir, 406; his death, 407. 

K'ang Hsi's campaign against Galdan, 
1st, 386; 2nd, 387; 3rd, 389. 

Kang Yu-wei, 598, 

Kanlipu, 188. 



INDEX 



IX 



Kan P'an. IS. 

Kan-tzi (fiS), 117. 

Kan Ying, 89. 

Kao Chang, conquest of, 136. 

Kao Ch'e, 112. 

Kao Chieh, 323. 

Kao Chi-hsing, 153. 

Kao Kou Li, 137, 138, 140. 

Kao Ta-chieh, 364, 366. 

Kao Ti (5S|), 114, 297. 

Kao Tsu (Han), see Liu Pang. 

Kao Tsung (T'ang), 140, 143. 

Kao Yu, 8, 12. 

Kapilavasta, 119. 

Karasbar, 88. 

Karashare, 141. 

Kashgaria, 385. 

Kashgarian campaign, 1st stage, 561; 

2nd stage, 562. 
Kashmen, 118. 
Kashmir, 87. 
Kattigara, 90. 
Keng Ching-chung, 330, 359, 364, 

367. 
Keshikteng, 310. 

Khalkha Country, invasion of the, 385, 
Khalkhas, 308, 383. 
Kham, 384, 391. 

Khangai (#t ft) Mountain, 3S3. 
Khaochid, 310,. 
Khor Chin, 238. 
Khoshoit, 384. 
Khotan-Lobnor, 75. 
Knowledge of Official Documents, 

163. 

Kiang Tung Chiao, battle of, 341, 
Kiang Tu, Yang Ti's tour to, 126. 
Kiaochow, seizure of, by Germany, 
593. 

Kim Ok Kium, 583. 

Kingdom of Han, 109. 

King Huai of Ch'u, 69. 

King of Nepal, 392. 

King of Tsin (JfcH), H7. 

King of Ujjain, 137. 

King of Western Ch'u, 70.. 

King of Yen, 153. 

King Wei Lieh, 38. 

Kipchacks, 203, 216. 

Ko Chu-han, 146. 

Kokonor, 127, 172. 

Kokonor, rebellion in, 415. 

Korchin, 309. 

Korean campaign, 585. 

Koreishites, 159. 

K'o Shang, 371. 

K'o vShih, 256. 

Kou Chien, King of Yueh, 35. 

Kou Chun, 177. 

Kowtowing, 52. 

Koxinga, 341, 344, 370. 



Ko Yun-fei, 501. 

K'u, 5. 

Kuan Chung, 69, 70. 

Kuang Chai Calendar, 156. 

Kiiangchowwan, lease of, 594. 

Kuang Hsii, accession of 555 ; death of, 

628. 
Kuang Wu (Han), his accession, 83 ; 

his government, 183. 
Kuanti. 314. 
Kuan T'ien-p'ei, 499. 
Kuan Tze, 56. 
Kuanvin, 314. 
Kuan Yu, 100, 101, 102. 
Kublai, his early life, 209; his conquest, 

210; his accession, 211; his foreign 

expeditions, 218 ; war with Japan, 

219; expedition against Champa, 219; 

died in 1294. 223. 
Kucha, 88. 
Kuei Chia, 448. 
Kueiliang, 522. 
Kuei Wang, 329, 333. 
Kukuklu, 202. 
Kuli Beg, 563. 
Kulichi, 238. 

Kumarajiva (jig J^ H fl-), 117. 
Kun, 7. 
Kung-ho, (^>frl). the period of, or 

" Joined Peace," 27. 
Kung Ssu-chen, 359. 
Kung Ti, Posterior Chou, 171. 
Kung Yu-te, 302, 330, 332, 356. 
Kuo-Hsing-Ya, 341. 
Kuo P*o, author of "Feng-shui," 123. 
Kuoshihyiian, 312. 
Kuo Sung-tao, 559. 
Kuo Tzil-hsing, 22(5. 
Kuo Tzu-i, 146, 147. 
Kuo Wei, 171. 
Kuropatkin, 616. 
Kushluh, 199, 200. 
Kuyuck, 205, 206. 
Kwan Chung, 32, 33. 



Lacquer, 240. 

LaiT'a,367. 

Lamaism, as state Religion of the 
Mongols, 220; division of, 243; 

Lama of Urga, 423. 

Lamas, lawlessness of the, 224; Govern- 
ment of the, 437; 

Land of the Demon. 18. 

Land of the Rising Sun, 141. 

Lang, Captain, 580. 

Lange, M. de, 405. 

Lan Ting-chen, 374. 

Laotze, 43, 116, 154. 

Laws of marriage, adoption of the, 2. 



INDEX 



Laws, originated, 20; first publication 
of written, 49; the first Code of, 
351. 

Lav, 522. 

Lay, H. N., 516. 

Lay Osbourne Flotilla, 540. 

Legalists, 50. 

Legation Guards, 602. 

Legalization of the Opium Trade, 528. 

Legations, siege of the, 605. 

Lesser Seal, 65. 

Lhatsang Khan, 397. 

Li, 48, 442. 

Liang, 38, 91. 

Liang Chi, 91. 

Liang Chi-ch'ao, 598. 

Liang Ssu-tu, 132. 

I,iane Wu Ti, 115, 120. 

Liao, 78, 173. 

Liao or Khitans, early history of, 172; 
war with Sungs, 176; further trouble 
with Sungs, 182; its downfall, 186. 

Liao Tung, 104, 234. 

Liaoyang, battle of, 616. 

Liaoyang, capture of, 292. 

Li Chan-ch'un, 331. 

Li Ch'ang-keng, 479. 

Li Ch'eng-tung, 329, 330, 331. 

Li Ch'en-tien, 541. 

Li Chi, conquest of Turkie by, 136; 
conquest of Corea by, 140. 

Li Chien Cheng, 133. 

Li Chih-fang. 368. 

Li Chi-Li, 237. 

Li Ching, conquest of Turkie by, 136. 

Lieh Mountain, Shen-nung born at, 3. 

Lieutenant Gamier, 567. 

Lifanyiian, 312. 

Li Han-chang, 558. 

Li Hsing-yuan, 507. 

Li Hsiu-ch'eng, 530. 

Li ITsii-ping, 530. 

Li Hung-chang, 456, 538. 

Li K'o-yung, 152, 153, 16S. 

Li Kuang-pi, 146, 147. 

Li K'uei, 51. 

Li Ling-fu, 145. 

Li Ju-pai, 290. 

Li Ju-sung, 251. 

Li Kang, 188, 189. 

Likin on opium, 575. 

Li Knang-ti, 4C2. 

Li Lien-ying, 547. 

Li Ling, 79. 

Li Mao-chen, 153. 

Li Mi, 132. 

Lin Ch'ing, 480. 

Lin Feng-hsiang, 511. 

Ling Shuang-wen, rebellion of, 374. 

LingTi (Han), 91. 

Ling Wu, 147. 

Lintan Khan, 310. 



Lin Tse-hsu, 494, 498, 507. 

Lin-tze, 55. 

Li Pai, 162. 

Li Ping-heng, 607. 

Li Shan, 28. 

Litang, 430. 

Literary examinations, system of, 

Ch'ing Dyn., 348. 
Literature, in Chou Dyn v 55; Golden 

age of, 457. 
Li Ting-kuo, 334, 335, 337. 
Li Tsung (Sung), 195. 
Li Tzu-ch'eng, 259, 262, 263, 304, 322. 
Li Tzii-tung, 132. 
Liu Ch'an, 102, 104. 
Liu Chang, 100. 
Liu Cheng-yvin, 330. 
Liu Chih-hsieh, 470, 477. 
Liu Chih-yiian, 171. 
Liu Chin, 246. 
Liu Chin-tang, 561. 
Liu Ch'uug, 171. 
Liu Hsiang, 458. 
Liu Hsiu, founder of the Eastern Han 

Dyn., 83. 
Liu Jen-kung, 153. 
Liu K'un-i^ 543. 
Liu Kuo-hsien, 370, 372. 
Liu Lieh Ts'ung, 109. 
Liu Ming-ch'uan, 571. 
Liu Pang (Han Kao Tsu), Rise of, 68; 

struggle with Hang Yu, 69, 70; 

became Emperor, 71; encounter with 

the Hsiung-nu, 72; his death, 73. 
Liu Pei, K. of Szu, his early life, 98; 

relations with Sun Chuan, 100; his 

defeat and death, 102. 
Liu Piao, 99, 102. 
Liu Sung, 114, 470. 
Liu Ting, 290. 
Liu Ts'ung, 99. 
Liu Tsung-yiian, 162. 
Liu Wen-hsin, 335. 
Liu Wu-chou, 132. 
Liu Yao, K. of Ant. Chao, 109. 
Liu Yin, 153. 
Liu Yii, 191. 

Liu Yiian, K. of Han, 109. 
Liu Yu (K. of Liu Sung $j£), 113. 
Liu Yung, 543. 
Liu Yung-fit, 567. 
Livadia, treaty of, 563. 
Li Wang, 27. 
Li Wei-chi, 452. 
Li Wen-ch'eng, 480-4. 
Li Yang, 128, 132. 

Li Ying, Anti-eunuch movement, 91, 92. 
Li Ya-tzii, 169. 
Li Yen, 250. 
Li Yuan, founder of the T'ang Dyn., 

129, 133. 
Li Yuan-hung, 637. 






INDEX 



XI 



Lobnor, 87. 

Lobtsang Tantsin, 415, 422. 

Lohpao, 475. 

Loo Choo, 128. 

Loochoo Islands, annexation of the, 553. 

Lorcha Arrow, case of the, 519. 

Lord Elgin, 520. 

Lord Napier, 492. 

Lord of a Region. 24. 

Lord Palmerston, 497. 

Lo Tse-nan, 514. 

Lou Lau, 77. 

Loyans:, The Eastern metropolis, built 

by Duke Chow, 29. 
Lu, 44. 45. 
Lu Hsiu-fu, 215. 
Lu K'un, 493. 
Lu Lin, 82. 
Lu Meng, 101. 
Lung Chen, 63. 
Lung Wen, 500. 
Lun Tai. 77. 

Lu Pu. Tung Cho killed by, 97. 
Lu Pu-wei, 58, 59. 
Luwang, 324, 326, 339. 
Lyons, 208. 



M 

Macao, becomes settlement, 253; status 
of, 576. 

Macartney, 482. 

Macartney's Embassy to China, 463. 

Macartv. Hollidav, 559. 

Ma Chiu-yu, 364." 

Maha Pavares Dhamma Raja, 337. 

Mahayama, 393. 

Mahmud, 238. 

Ma Hsin-i, 549. 

Ma I, 132. 

Maitreya, 155. 

Ma Lin, 290. 

Malwa, 137. 

Man Chit, 268. 

Manchu Supremacy, the period of, 
630. 

Manchuria, 74. 

Manchuria, early inhabitants of, 269. 
general condition in, 276. 

Manchus, rise of, 257; alliance with 
Mings, 262; division of periods, 271 ; 
early legends of the, 273; war with 
the allies, 278; conquest of Haisi 
Wei, 279; their military and political 
organizations, 282; war with Mings, 
2S5; negotiation with Mings, 299. 

Manichaeans, 157, 159. 

Manichaeism, 158. 

Mani Chiao, 159. 

Manjusiri Tahuangti, 267. 

Manku Temur, 217. 



Man-toti, 103. 

Mantzu, 441. 

Manvun, 558. 

Mao* Wen-lung, 295, 302. 

Ma Pan, 362. 

Marco Polo, 220. 

Marcus Aurelius, 138. 

Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, 90. 

Margary, the murder of, 557. 

Marquis of Shen, 28. 

Marquis Ts'eng, 564. 

Marriage customs, 51. 

Ma Shih-ying, 321. 

Massagatae, 84. 

Mati Dhivaja, 210. 

Matteo Ricci, 265. 

Ma Wei, flight of T'ang Yiian Tsung 

to, 147. 
Ma Yi, 76. 
Ma Yin 153. 
Medical science, 5. 
Medicine, first made use of, 3. 
Medina, 141. 
Mei Hsi. 13. 
Mei Sheng, 79. 

Memorial on Buddha's Bone, 156, 162. 
Mencius, 17, 46, 47. 
Mengfu Kuo, King of, 197. 
Mengepulu, 279. 
Mengku, 197, 206. 
Mesopotamia, 216. 
Miao-chi-hsiang, 267. 
Miao Ming, 413. 
Miao P'ei-lin, 536. 
Miao-tze, origin of the, 2. 
Middle Kingdom, 4, 58. 
Mien Chih, 481. 

Militarv svstem, T'ang Dyn., 164. 
Ming Ching, 163. 
Ming Dyn., 232-266. 
Ming Liang, 469. 
Ming Sui, 449. 
Ming Ti (Plan), 84, 87, 88. 
MingTi ($£), 114. 
Ming T'iao, battle of, 15. 
Mi Wu, 97. 

Modern Literature, 93. 
Mohammed, 201. 
Mohammed' Ali, 485. 
Mohammedan, 485. 
Mohammedanism, 159, 207, 425. 
Mohammedan Rebellion, 551. 
Mohammed Gakoob, 552. 
Mo-ho, 185, 270. 
Mokan, 134. 
Mo Lo, 363. 
Mo-nan. 80. 
Monan Mongols, 308. 
Mongolian Desert, 63. 
Mongolian Language, 208. 
Mongolian Superintendency, 414. 
Mongolian Tartars, 29. 



INDEX 



Mongols, Rise of, 197; Army of the, 
206; effects of their conquest of 
Western Asia, 207; language of the, 
20S; Alliance between Sungs and the, 
209; paper currency of the, 228; 
Court ceremonies of the, 229; inroads 
of the, 233; further inroads of the, 
247. 

Montcovin, Jean de, 221. 

Mopei Mongols, 308. 

Moscow, 205. 

Mo Ti, 169. 

Mo-tze. 47. 

Moukung T'ing, 438, 446. 

Mouton, 72. 

Miihpan, 448. 

Mukden, battle of, 616. 

Mukhuli, 200. 

Muktahna, 521. 

Mulberry grove, 16. 

Mung Tien, 63, ()6. 

Mu Tsung, 248. 

Mu Wang, 26, 27, 539. 

Mu Yieh, battle of, 19. 

N 

Nachin, 446. 
Naiman, 310. 

Nalinpulu, 278. 

Namuchar, 420. 

Namugan, 217 

Nan Chao, 146, 150 

Nan-ch'ao, Chieh %£ died at, 14. 

Nanhanshan, 308. 

Nan Lit, 77. 

Nan T'ang, 171. 

Nan Yang, 102, 147 

Nanyiian, 3ul 

Napier, Lord, 492. 

National feeling, birth of, 617. 

Nationalization of the Railways, 635. 

Nayan, 218. 

Na Yen-ch'eng, 489. 

Nei Ko, 347, 348. 

Nei Wu Fu, 348. 

Nen River, 309, 

Nepal, invasion of, 434. 

Nerchinsk, 379. 

Nestorians, 157. 

New Opium Code, 495. 

Ngari. 392. 

Niehfei, 515. 

Niehmusa, 188. 

Nien Keng-yao, 416 

Nikan, 333. 

Nikan Weilan, 277. 

Nine Regions, 12. 

Nine Whites, 384. 

Ningshen Mutiny, 477. 

Ninguta, 270. 

Ningyiian, battle of, 297. 



Nisaean CX ,f£) horses, 78. 

Nm Chien, 503. 

Niu Kao, 191. 

Niulu-yachen, 282. 

Niup'i-Ta-Ch'ing, 445. 

Nobility, Manchu, 355. 

Nogi, 616. 

North Ch'i (ft ^), 113. 

North Chou (ft jgj), 1J3. 

Northern Barbarians, 64. 

Northern Hsiung-nu, 87, 88. 

Northern Hsiung-nu, disappearance of 

the, 89. 
North Han, 171. 
North Wei (ft It), 112. 
Novels and drama, age of, 230. 
Nii-chen, 172, 185, 270. 
Nurhachu, 257, 275, 298. 
Nu River, 336. 
Nuts'ai, 315. 



Oelkun, 278. 

O Erh-tai, 467. 

Office of Transmission, 412. 

Ogdai, 202, 205, 206. 

Ogcdai, 216. 

Ogedai Khanate, 216. 

Oirad, 309. 

Oirats, 238. 

O-kiang, Hang^u (JJ( ^) died at, 
71, 

Okmnawa Prefecture, 554. 

Olopun, 157. 

Omar, 141. 

Omuhui, 273. 

Onon, 197, 199. 

" Open Door " Policy, 596. 

Opium War, cause of the war, 491 
appointment of Lord Napier, 492 
appointment of Lin Tse Hsii, 494 
destruction of Opium at Canton, 495 
New Opium code, 496; fall of Ting 
hai, 496; attack on Canton, 500 
treaty of Nanking, 503. 

Oratory, 163. 

Orazio della Penna, 439. 

Orche, 311. 

Orchi, 310. 

Orchu, 310. 

Ordos. 87, 248, 310, 394. 

Orkhon, 218. 

Oroktai, 238. 

Ortai, 413, 413. 

Osung, 75, 77. 

Othman, 141. 

Otoli, 273. 

Otra, 237. 

Otrar, 201. 

Otngur,143, 172. 



INDEX 



Oxus, 206. 
Ovama, 616. 



Pai Chi, 137, 138, 140. 

Pai Hsien-chung, 364. 

Pai-i, 442. 

Pai-shan, 270. 

Pai-to, 269. 

Palace examinations, 163. 

Palatsanga. 118. 

Palmerston, Lord, 497. 

Pan Chao. exploits of, 88. 

Pandita, 2-12. 

P'an Keng, removes the Capital to 

Yin, 17. 
Panshen Lama, 391. 
Panthv Rebellion, 552. 
Pan Ti, 422. 
Pao Ch'ao, 530. 
Paotechow, 322. 
Paper currency, 228. 
Parkes, H. S., 519. 
Parthia, 75, 78. 
Parthians. 90. 

Pass of Hu Ch'iao Kuan, 171. 
Pei, 69. 

P'ei Hsiang. 456. 
Peikushan. 324. 

Pei Ti Cheng. Liu Pei died at. 102. 
Pei Vans' Defensive F'orces, 572. 
Peking, fall of, 260. 
Penal Code, 48. 
P'eng Yueh. ,2. 
Pension svstem, 355. 
Pentagle,"337. 
Pereiva, 380. 

Perpendicular Unionists, 41. 
Persia, 216. 
Perton, 378. 
Pescadores. 343. 
Peter the Great, 380. 
Phags-pa, 208. 

Phagspa Lodoi Gyaltshan, 392. 
Philaster, M., 56". 
P'ing Hsiu-chi, 250. 
P'ing Liang, battle of, 364. 
P'ingshan, peace of, 307. 
PingTi (Han), 81. 
P'ing Wang, 29, 35. 
PMng Wang of Chou, 38. 
P'ing Wang of Ch'u, 34. 
Pishina, 343. 
Pitao, 295. 
Piwengiian, 312. 
Plani Carpini. 207. 
Po (g),15. 
Po, 442. 

Poetry, age of, 160. 
P'o Hai, 172, 185. 



Pohai, 270. 

Poland, 205. 

Political Divisions of the Empire, 234. 

Polygamy, 50. 51. 

Pope Clement V, 221. 

Port Arthur, lease of, 594. 

Port Hamilton, restitution of, to Corea, 

574. 
Po-ssii. 28. 
Po- Ssu Shih, 157. 
Posterior Chao (?£ £|), 110. 
Posterior Liang (^ fg), 1 15. 
Posterior Liang Dynasty, 168. 
Po Szu, 61. 

Pottinger, Sir Henry, 503. 
Poyarkoff, 376. 
Prayer, 54. 

Prelate of the Ocean, 391. 
Prince An, 304. 
Prince Cheng, 58, 59. 
Prince Cheng, 332. 

Prince Cheng (g$), or Tsai Yiian, 536. 
Prince Chia, 464. 
Prince Fu P'eng, 418. 
Prince Hsiu, 336. 
Prince I, 526, 536. 
Prince K'ang, 189. 
Prince Kung, 386,, 526; dismissal of. 

569. 
Prince Lisuih, 406. 
Prince of Chao, 59, 117. 
Prince of Ch'i, 133. 
Prince of Ch'in, 109. 
Prince of Chin, 335. 
Prince of Ching Nan, 443. 
Prince of Hsin, 257. 
Prince of Ping Hsi, 320, 443. 
Prince of Tai, 130. 
Prince of Tsin, 168. 
Brinceof Yen, 130. 
Prince of Yen, 235. 
Prince of Yen P'ing, 342. 
Prince Regent, 321. 
Prince Shih, 417. 
Prince Shun, 569. 
Prince Su, 189, 322, 631. 
Prince Yen, the rebellion of, 235. 
Prince Ying, 320. 
Prince Yu, 320. 
Prince Yii, 386. 
Princess Wen Cheng, 136. 
Prithi Narayan, 432. 
ruchientai, 279. 
Pu-i, 629. 
Pu-kuh, 20. 

Pukuli Yunsung Aisin Ghiorroh 273. 
Pu Lo, 220. 
Pulo, 333, 386. 
Pu Lun, 631. 
Purity Debaters, 116. 
Purut, 486. 
Putiatin, Count, 521. 



INDEX 



Q 

Quemoy, loss of, 370. 
Queue, 356. 



Race, origin of the, J. 

Rafael Perestrello,' 253. 

Red Church, 393. 

Red Church, expulsion of the, 396. 

Red Evebrovvs, 82. 

Red Girdle. 356, 

Reed, Mr./52. 

Reform Edicts, 597. 

Reform Memorials, 618. 

Reform Movement, 597. 

Reform Movement, Tz'ti Hsi as leader 
of the, 614. 

Reform Movements, education, 619; 
army and navy, 620 ; constitution, 621 ; 
reorganization of the government, 
622; internal communications, 623; 
finance, 623; question of extrater- 
ritoriality, 625; productions, industry, 
and Commence, 625; anti-foot-binding 
edict, 626; anti-opium campaign, 
623. 

Reform, principal causes of, 614. 

Reforms, beginning of, 550; system of, 
outlined by Tso Tsung-tang, 572. 

Religion of the Manchus, 313. 

Rent, 165. 

Restoration, 545. 

Return of the Court, 614. 

Revolutionary Movement, 632. 

Revolution, the, beginning of, 633; fall 
of Hanyang, 638; capture of Nanking, 
610 ; peace conference, 64 L ; abdication 
of the Manchus, 642; union of North 
and South, 644. 

Riazan, 205. 

Ricci, Matteo, 265. 

Rites of Chou, 56. 

Riverei, Henri, 568. 

Roberts, J. J., 506. 

Rome, embassy to, Han Dyn., 89. 

Rubruquis, William, 208. 

Running Horse, inventions of, 103. 

Russia, 205, 376. 

Russian Negotiations, 527. 

Russians, inroad of the, 376. 

Russo-Japanese War, 615. 



Sacrifices, 53. 
Sage of the West, 84. 
Saghalien, 281. 
Sah, Admiral, 639. 



Saigo, 553. 

Sain (H H) Noin, 417. 

Sai Shang-ou, 507. 

Saksim, 203. 

Samarkand, 202. 

Samun Bay, 596. 

San Cha Ho, battle of, 335. 

vSan Fan Rebellion, 358. 

Sangji, 396; death of, 397. 

Sangji Gyamtso, 390. 

San Niang Tzu, 248. 

Sanskrit, 87, 122. 

Sarhsu, battle of, 288, 289. 

Sarimsok, 486. 

Sassanian, 140. 

Sava Wladislavich, 414. 

Scaling Bridge, 164. 

Schall, Joannes Adam, 25&, 352. 

Science and Arts, in Chou Dyn., 57. 

Selenga, 199. 

Semi-Annamese States, 54, 56. 

Semi-Tartar, 36, 56. 

Sen Er, 90. 

Sengalintsin, 511, 525. 

Sengun, 399. 

Seres, China known to Greeks as, 90. 

Seven Hates, 286. 

Seven Khojas, the war with the, 490, 

Seven Princes, rebellion of the, 73. 

Seven States, Age of the, 37-42. 

Sexagenary Cycles, 5. 

Seymour Expedition, 603. 

Se}'yid Jehangir, 487. 

Shang Chih-hsin, 359, 367. 

Shang Dynasty, 15-19. 

Shanghai-Woosung Railwav, 559. 

Shang K'o-hsi, 3.02, 330, 333, 335, 360. 
365. 

Shang Kuan Wan-erh, 145. 

Shangti Hui, 506. 

Shanhaikuan, battle of, 318. 

Shan of Khwarezrr, 200. 

Shansi, great famine of, 560. 

Shao K'ang, 13. 

ShaoTi ($£), 114. 

Shaowu, 339. 

Shao Yu-lien, 576, 589. 

Shara Muren, 383. 

Shastra (f&) on Realty and Appear- 
ance, 117. 

Sha To, 152. 

Sheng Hsiian-huai, 640. 

Sheng (uncivilized) Nii-chens, 185. 

Shengpao, 511. 

Shen Nung, God of Agriculture, 3. 

Shell Pao-chen, 553. 

Shensi, Chinese first settled in, 1. 

Shen Tsung (Sung), his reforms 180; 
his foreign policy, 181. 

Shenyang, capture of, 292. 

Shen Yo, author of the system of the 
four tones, 122. 



INDEX 



xv 



Sheriki, 217. 

Shien-yu, 63. 

Shihche, 402. 

Shih Ching-t'ang, 170. 

Shih K'o-fa. 264, 321. 323, 324. 

Shih Lang, 372. 

Shih Le, K. of Post. Chao, 109. 

Shih Nai-an, 231. 

Shih Pi Khan, 135. 

Shih Ssii-ming. 148. 

Shih Ta-k'ai, 514. 

Shih Tsung, K. of Posterior Chow, 
171, 247. 

Shih Tsung (Ming), 247. 

Shih Wei, 172. 

Shimonoseki, peace of, 390. 

Shiriras, 123. 

Shogun, 581. 

Shou Ch'ang, 631. 

Shou Ch'i, 631. 

Shou Yang, 111. 

Shui Hu-chuan, 231. 

Shun Chih, 262, 317. 

Shun, his accession, 7; his early life, S; 
his government, 9. 

Shun Ti (5£), 114. 

Shu (civilized) Nii-chens, 185. 

Shuo Wen Chinese Script (gft 3t), 93. 

Silesia, 206. 

Siloditya II, 137. 

Sindhu, 76. 

Sin-tze, 47, 66. 

Sir G. Bonham, 518. 

Sir Henry Pottinger, 503. 

Sir Hugh Gough, 499. 

Sir George, 494. 

Sir Gordon Bre 

Sir Robert Hart, 576. 

Sir Thomas Wade, 553. 

Sisters of Charity, 548. 

Six Boards, 347. 

Slavery, under Manchus, 314; exten- 
sion of, 352; abolition of, 412. 

Small Development (/J\ ^) (Hina- 
yana), 118. 

Small Sword Society, 515. 

Social life of the T'angs, 166. 

Sogdiana, 78. 

Solopan, '446, 451. 

Solun tribe, 281. 

Son of Heaven 49 53. 

SooTs'in, 41. 

vSo Tung-po, 184. 

Southern Hsiung-nu, 87. 

Spheres of influence, 595. 

Spring and Autumn Classic, 31. 43, 48. 

Spring Minister, or Minister of Rites 
and Religion, 23. 

Sramana, 117. 

Srong Tsan Gampo, 220. 

Srong Tsung Gam-po, 150. 

Ssu K'Q Ch'iian Shu, 458. 



Ssii Li Chien, 246. 

Ssu Ma Kuang, 183. 

Stanton, Vincent, 489. 

Stepano, 376. 

St. Petersburg, Treaty of, 564. 

Strong-Btsang-Sam-Po, ruler of Tibet, 
136. 

Struggle between Ch'u and Han, 69-71. 

Style of the Six Dynasties, 123. 

Su, 18. 

Succession, the question of the, 557. 

Su Chun, rebellion by, 111. 

Sui Dynasty, 125-131. 

Sui Jen, producer of lire, 2. 

Suite, 322. 

Sumatra, 140. 

Sumeru mountain, 123. 

Summer Minister, or Minister of War, 
23. 

Su-mo, 269. 

Sun Ch'eng-tsung, 297. 

Sun Chia-ku, 547. 

Sun Chien, 99. 

Sun Chuan, K. of Tung Wu, 99, 100, 
101. 

Sung (gO $|5), 113. 

Sung Ching, 145. 

Sung Ch'ing, 588. 

Sung Dynasty, 174-196. 

Sungari, 137." 

Sung Wen Ti, 119. 

Sun Hao. 106. 

Sunid 310. 

Sun K'o-wang, 334, 335, 356. 

Sun Shih-i, 452. 

Sun Ssu-k'o, 368. 

Sun Te-kung, 296. 

Sun Yen-ling, 359. 

Sun Yiin, 118. 

Sun Yu-yung, 576. 

Su Shen, 78. 

Su-shen, 268. 

Su Shun, 535. 

Su Tao Cheng, 114. 

Su Ting-fang, 140. 

Sutra, 85. 

Sutra of the Benevolent King, 155. 

Sutras, 117. 

Sun Wen, his early life, 632; elected 
President of the Provisional govern- 
ment, 642; his resignation, 644. 

Su Tsung (T'ang), 147. 

Su Tung-po, 162. 

Su Wu, 79. 

Su Yen, 114, 115. 

Syllabic spelling, 122. 

Szechuan revolt, 635, 

Sz Ma Chao, 104. 

Sz Ma Chien, 79. 

Sz Ma Hsiang Yu, 79. 

Sz Ma I, 103, 104, 111. 

Sz Ma Sz, 104. 



INDEX 



Sz Ma Yen, founder of Tsin Dyn., 104, 

108. 
Szu, rise of, 98-100; struggle with Wu, 

102; overthrow of. 104. 



Ta Chao, 430. 

Ta Chi, 18, 19, 21. 

Ta Chin, 90. 

Tachinch'uan, 446, 451. 

Ta Ch'in Shih, 157. 

Tachipu, 514. 

Tachuyin, 270. 

T'ai Chia, his accession, 16; dethroned 
and reinstated by 1-yin, 17; 

T'ai K'ang, 13. 

Taiping Rebellion, the, fall of Yung-an, 
capture of Nanking, 507; fall of 
Nanking, 541; causes of the Imperial 
success, 543. 

Taipings, the, their origin of, 506 ; their 
military organization, 508; civil gov- 
ernment of the, 509; laws, 509; 
their faith, 510; dissensions among 
the, 514. 

Taiping T'ienkuo, 506. 

Tai Shih, 141. 

T'ai Tsu (Ming), 232. 

T'aitsu (Ch'ing), 275. 

T'aitsung (Ch'ing), 298. 

T'ai Tsung (Sung), 176. 

T'aitsung (Ch'ing), 311. 

T'ai Tsung (T'ang Dyn.), 129, 148, 149, 
176. 

Tai Tsung (T'ang), rise of, 129; his 
generalship, 132; became Emperor, 
133. 

T'aiwan, 343. 

Tai Wu Pi Uhtl), H2. 

Talan, 197. 

Tarn Bac Co, 255. 

Tamir, 417. 

T'an Chow, peace of, 177. 

Tan-fu, 20. 

T'ang (jg|), overthrew Hsia dynasty, 
14; became Emperor, 15; his govern- 
ment, 16. 

Tang Ching-sung, 591. 

T'ang Ping, 402. 

Tang Shao-yi, 641. 

Tang Shou-ch'ien, 642. 

T'ang TzQ, 313, 314. 

Tangut. 172, 392. 

T'ang Wang, 324, 323, 327, 340. 

T'an T'ing-hsiang, 522. 

Tao, 44. 

Taoism, founded by Laotze, 43, 44 ; in- 
fluence of its degenerated doctrine, 
92; influence of Ts'ui Hao, 119: as 
state religion of T'ang Dynasty, 154. 



Taoist Patriarch, 93. 

Tao Kuang, 484, 495. 

Tao Te Ching, 43, 154. 

Tao Tung, theory of, 196. 

Tarbagatai Prefecture, 384. 

Tartarland, 41. 

Tartars, conquered by Wu Ting, 18. 

Tashilumpo, 391. 

Tartonha, 423. 

Taxation and currency, (T'ang Dyn.), 

165. 
Taxation of land, introduced by Huang- 

ti, 5. 
Taxation, svstem of, 24. 
Ta Yiieh Ti", 76. 
Tehsinga, 530. 
T6 Hua, 253. 
T'eishun, 502. 
Te Kuang, 173. 
Temple of the Light, 418. 
Temujine, 197, 198. 
Temur Khan, 223. 
Temur the Lame, 236. 
Teng Ai, 104. 
Teng An-pang, 521. 
TSoutai, 476, 478. 
Theodosius, his ambassador to China, 

140.. 
Thirteen Yamens, 348. 
Thousand Old Men's Banquet, the, 

465. 
Three Chin, 41. 
Three Divine Pulers, or San Huang, 

2,3. 
Three Hans, 78. 
Three Kingdoms, 96-106. 
Three Princes, War of the First, 

325. 
Tiao, 165. 
T'iao Shen, 314. 
Tibetans, the, 149. 
Tibetan tribes, 108. 
T'ien Chi, 38. 
T'ien Ho, 38. 
T'ienming, 2^3. 
Tien Pao, 145. 
Tien Shan Nan Lu, 74, 75. 
Tien Shan Pei Lu, 75. 
Tien Ti Hui, 374. 
Tientsin, capture of, 606 
Tientsin Massacre, 547. 
T'ien Tsu, 185, 186. 
Ti Jen-chieh, 144. 
Ting Ling, 79. 
Ting Pao-chen, 546. 
Ti Ping, 215. 

Tobacco, introduction of, 255. 
Toba Ssu Kung, 179, 
Toba Tartars, rise of, 112. 
Toghan, 219, 238. 
Toghural, 199. 
Togo, 615. 



INDEX 



Tohan Temur, 225, 227. 232, 
Tolbusin, 378. 
Tolunga, 530, 551. 
Tong Hok. 584. 
Tonquin, secession of. 170. 
Ton Cliicn-teh, 132. 
T.ou Hsien, S9. 
Tou Wu, 91. 

Trade with the West, Si). 
Treasurer, 234. 
Treaty of 111], 194. 
Treaty of 1105, 194. 
Treaty of 1208, 195. 
Treaty of 1792, 401. 
Treaty of 1874, 507. 
Treaty of 1883, 508. . 
Treaty of Aigun (Rus.), 523. 
Treaty of Kiakhta, 413, 4 01. 
Treaty of K'uei Ch'in, v\. / 
Treaty of Nanking, 503. j^ 
Treaty of Nerchinsk, 380. 
Treaty of Portsmouth, 016. 
Treaty of Tientsin, 522, 526. 
Triad Society, 515. 
Tribute system, 24. 
Triple Defense Plan, 295. 
Tsai Chen, 631. 
Ts'ai Ch'ien, 479. 
Tsai Hsiin, 631. 
Tsai Tao, 631. 
Tsai Tse, 631. 
Ts'ai Yiian-p'ei, 642. 
Ts'ang Chi, invention of Chinese char- 
acters, 5. 

Tsangpa Khan, 384. 

Tsang Yii Wang (£), 114. 

Ts'ao Chi-hsiang, 245. 

Ts'ao Pin, 177. 

Tsarkutsi, 283. 

Ts'eng Chi, 612. 

Tseng Hsien, 248. 

Ts'eng Kuo-ch'iian, 533. 

Ts'eng Kuo-fan, the rise of, 512; as 
high commissioner, 532; suppression 
of Niehfei, 545; his death, 549. 

Tseng Yang-hsing, 364. 

Ts'en Yu-ving, 558. 

Tsercuf (|g ?£), Khan, 417. 

Tsetsen Khanate, 383. 

Ts'ewang Arabdan, 389, 397, 410. 

Tsin Dynasty, 107. 

Ts'in (if?), (same as Ch'in), the rise of, 

38; struggle for supremacy, 39; 

conquest of six states, 59. 

Tso Liang-yii, 323. 
Tsong Khaba, 243, 393. 
Tso Tsung-tang, 534, 551. 
Tsuanla, 446. • 
Tsu Ch'eng-hsun, 251. 
Ts'uch'in, 446. 



Ts'ui Hao, 119. 

Tsungli Yamen, 528. 

Tsung Tse, 190. 

Ts'un Hsii, 108, 169. 

Tua, 218. 

Tuan Hua, 536. 

Tuan Tsung (Sung), 215. 

Tubet Kuo Wang, 397. 

Tuchow, 4.42. 

Tu Fu, 162. 

Tufu, 442. 

Tu Fu-wei, 132. 

Tuhai, 304. 

Tuhsien, 442. 

Tuhsinga, 530. 

Tu Ju-hui, 133. 

Tukhtul, 199. 

Tu Ku Hun, 136. 

Tule, 202. 

Tulishin, 414. 

Turned, 310. 

Turnen, 134. 

Tu Mu, battle of, 239. 

Tuntud, 248. - * 

Tung, 442. / 

Tung Cheng, 98, 99. 

T'ung Chih, 530, 555. 

Tung Cho, rise of, 94; flight of, 96; 

his death, 97. 
Tung Chung-kuei, 293. 
Tung Fu-hsiang, 603. 
Tung Hu, 79, 137, 172, 268. 
Tungmenghui, organization of the, 

633. 
Tung Nieh, 540. 
Tung-o, 363. ' 
T'ung T'ai Monastery, 120. 
Tungut, 136. 
Tung Wen Kuan, 550. 
Tung Wu, 99, 101". 
Turbet, 384. 
Turfan, 88, 130, 392. " 
Turgut, 384. 
Turkie, rise of, 134; conquest of the, 

135; 
Tushetu Khanates, .383. 
Tussus, 442. 
Tu Sung, 289. , 
T'uti, 313. 

Tu Wen-hsiu, 552. , 

Tu Yu, 100. 
Tu Yung-ho, -333. . 

Two Sages, 143. ] ' \ 

Tze Ch'an, promulgates iifst written 

laws, 50. 
Tze Kuang Ko,:427, 550. 
Tz'u An, 535. 
Tz'ii Hsi, 535. . 

Tzii Cheng Yuan, 621. 
Tzu I Chu, 621. : : . , '. 



INDEX 



u 

Ubashi, 42S. 
Uchumuchin, 310. 
Udyana, 118. 
Ulcheitu Khan, 223. 
Ulianghai, 238. 
Ulterior Tibet, 391. 
Ulus of Batu, 216. 
Ulus of Haluga, 216. 
Upper Usuri, 280. 
Urga, 413. 
Urumtsi, 136, 384. 



V 

Viceroy, 234. 
Vikramditya, 137. 
Vincent Stanton, 498. 
Volga, 216. 
Vriangatai, 210. 



w 

Wade, 522. 

Wade, Sir Thomas, 553. 

Wang An-shih, reforms of, 180. 

Wang Chao-kun, 80. 

Wang Chao, rebellion of, 151. 

Wang Chen, 239, 244, 374. 

Wang Ch'eng-Gn, 201. 

Wang Chih, 245. 

Wang Chih-hsien, 152. 

Wang Chin-pao, 368. 

Wang Fa-cheng, 470. 

W r ang Fu-ch'en, 363, 364. 

Wang Hsien-chih, 124. 

Wang Hsi-chih, 124. 

Wang Hsi-peng, 501. 

Wang Hua-chen, 295. 

Wang kuei-fei, 245. 

Wang K'un, 330. 

Wang Mang, the usurpation of, 80 : as 

assistant Emperor, 81; his reign, 82; 

his downfall, 83. 
Wang Meng, 106. 
Wang Ping-fan, 362. 
Wang Shen-chih, 153. 
Wang Shih-ch'ung, 130, 132. 
Wang Shih-fu, 230. 
Wang Te-jie, 332. 
Wang Ts'ai-chin, 297. 
Wang Tun, rebellion by, 111. 
Wang Wu, 356. 

Wang Yuan-ts'e, mission to India, 137. 
Wan Li, 250. 
Wan Li Five Color, 253. 
Wanli Mama, 314. 
Wan San-huai, 475. 
Wanyen, 271. 
Wanyen Nu-chens, 276. 



Ward, 524. 

Ward, Frederick, 537. 

Warha, 363. 

Wei $g, 38, 59. 

Wei, 391. 

Wei H ||, struggle with Wu and Szu, 

101; extinction of the house of, 104. 
Wei Ch'ang-hui, 514. 
Wei Cheng, 133. 
Wei Ch'ih-kung, 133. 
Wei Chung-hsien, 246, 257. 
Weights and measures, introduction 

of, 5. 
Weihaiwei, fall of, 589; lease of, 594. 
Wei Hou, 114. 

Weihsing (g| j&) lottery, 560. 
Wei Man, House of, 78. 
Wei Yang, 50. 
Wen Ch'eng, 392, 439. 
Wen Fu, 451. 

Weng Cheng Ti's K. of N. .Wei, 119. 
Wen Hsiian Wang, 349. 
Wen Ti, pf, 126. 
Wen Ti $£, 114. 
Wen Tien-hsiang, 215. 
Wen Ti (Han), 73. 
WenTsung (T'ang), 151. 
Wen Wang, 21, 50. 
Wen Wei, 502. 
Western Liao, 188. 
Western Wei © |j|, 113. 
White Lily Society, 469. 
White Mountaineers, 385. 
White Pony Temple, 84. 
William Rubruquis, 208. 
Winter Minister, or Minister of Works, 

24. 
Wo-chii, 269. 
Woman, position of, among Manchus, 

315. 
Wooden Oxen, invention of, 103. 
Writing, origin of the system of, 2. 
Written language of the Manchus, 312. 
Wu %, 34, 35. 
Wu t^ ^, rise of, 99 ; struggle with Szu, 

102; struggle with Wei, 104; fall of, 

106. 
Wuchang, peace of, 211. 
Wu-chi. 270. 
Wu Chih, 80. 
Wuchumai, 187. 
Wu Hsiang, 320. 
Wu Hua Shan, 360. 
Wu I, 53. 
Wu Keng, 22. 
Wu K'o-tu, 557. 
Wukunai, 270. 
Wula Bere, 279. 
Wu Pa-yiieh, 468. 
Wu San-kuei, his alliance with the 

Manchus, 262, 317; his revolt, 361; 

his death, 366 ; 



INDEX 



Wu Shakuan, hW. 

Wu Shih-fan, 367. 

Wu Shih-ts'ung, 360. 

Wu Shu. 191. 

Wu Ta-cheng, 590. 

Wu T'a Ssu, 243. 

Wu Ti (Han), early relation with the 

Barbarians, 74 ; conquest of Hsiung- 

nu, 76; conquest of Corea, 78; his 

character, 78; 
WuTi (5fc), 114. 
\\"u Ti, K. of N. Chou, 125. 
Wu Ting-fang, 641. 
Wu Tine, expedition against the 

Tartars, 17-18. 
Wu Tse-tien, as a Tsai-ien, 142; her 

regency 143; her character, 144; her 

abdication, 144. 
Wu Tsung (Ming), Cheng Te, 245. 
Wu Tze-hsu, 34, 35. 
Wu Wang of Chou, 40. 
Wu Wang, the Military King, founder 

of Chou Dynasty, 20; his government, 

21; his death, 22. 
Wu Yiian-chi, 151. 



Yacoob Beg, 561, 562. 

Yalu, naval battle of the, 586. 

Yang Chien, founder of the Sui Dy- 
nasty, 113, 125. 

Yangchow. fall of, 323. 

Yang Fang, 477, 478, 488, 409. 

Yang Hao, 258. 

Yang Ho, 238. 

Yang Hsin-ch'ing, 514. 

Yang Hsiian, 241. 

Yang Hu, 105. 

Yang Kuang, 126. 

Yang Kuei-fei, 145. 

Yang Kuo-chung, 145. 147. 

Yang P'eng Shan, 342. 

Yang Ti (Sui), his accession, 126; con- 
struction of the Grand Canal, 127; his 
foreign policy, 127; expedition against 
Corea, 128; dragon boat trip, 129; 
his character, 130. 

Yang Ting-liu, 325, 327. 

Yangtze compact, 608. 

Yang Ying-t'ai, 292. 

Yang Yo-ping, 551. 

Yang Yu, 129. 

Yang Yii-ch'un, 477, 478, 488. 

Yao, 442. 

Yao, 5; his government, 6; overflow of 
the Yellow River, Kun's execu- 



tion, 7. 
Yao Cheng, 153. 
Yao Chih-fu. 471. 
Yao Ch'i-sheng, 371. 



Yao Tsung, 145. 

Ya Sen, 384. 

Yehch'en, 322. 

Yeh Chih-ch'ao, 586. 

Yehha, 278. 309. 

Yeh-lu-ta-shih, 188. 

Yeh Ming-ch'en, 518, 519, 521. 

Yeh Tsu-kuei, 604. 

Yellow Church, 393. 

Yellow Church, defender of the, 384. 

Yellow Girdle, 356. 

Yellow River, overflow of, 17; Chinese 
first settled at the basin of, 1, 48, 58. 

Yellow Turbans, rebellion of the, 92. 

Yen, 38, 59. 

Yen Jan, 89, 112. 

Yen Nien, 610. 

Yen Sheng Kung, 347, 349. 

Yen Sung, 248, 249. 

Yessugai, 197, 198. 

Yeta, 248. 

Yin Chang, 631,633. 

Yin Dynasty, 17, 19. 

Ying Hsiung, 361. 

Yin Ping, the pass of, by Teng Ai, 104. 

Ying Shan, 248. 

Ying Tsung (Ming), 239w 

Yishan 523. 

Yo Fei, 191. 

Yoh Chi, 412. 

Yoh Chung-ch'i, 411, 416, 447. 

Yorktend, 1S9. 

Yo Yiin, 193. 

Younghusband, Col. mission to Tibet, 
627. 

Young Wing, Dr., 551. 

Ysbrandf Ides, 380. 

Yu ji|, reducing the Huang Ho disaster, 
7 ; as .Prime Minister, 8 ; his accession, 
10; his government, 11; his death, 
12. 

Yuan Ch'ung-huan, 296. 

Yiian (jc) Dyn., 212-226. 

Yuan Hao, K. of Hsi Hsia, 179. 

Yuan Shao, extermination of eunuchs, 
94; defeated by Chao Ch'ao, 96. 

Yiian Shih-k'ai, his dismissal, 630; 
return to power, 638; elected Presi- 
dent, 644. 

Yiian Shih Tien Tsun, 154, 

Yuan Ti (Tsin), 111. 

Yiian Tsung, 1.47. 

Yiian Tsung, (T'ang), 145-148. 

Yiian Wen-hui, 452. 

Yuan Wu Gate, tragedy of the, 132. 

Yiianyiian, 317. 

Yiian Yiian Huang Ti, 154. 

Yu Ao, 329. 

Yu Ch'eng, 521. 

Yii Ch'ien, 239, 499, 501. 

Yu Chow, battle of. 177. 

Yuch, 34. 



INDEX 



Yueh-i, 40. 

Yiieh Ti, 74; Kingdom of, 75; exodus 

of the, 76. 
Yii Lu, 607. 
Yu Mu. 311. 
Yung 165. 
Yung An. 489. 
Yung Cheng, construction of celestial 

globe. 5. 
Yung Ho Kung, 437. 
Yung Le, 235. 
Yung Wing, Dr., 551. 
Yiini, 409. 
Yiirib, 409. 
Yiintang, 409. 



Yiinti, 409. 

Yiintih, 409. 

Yiinvin, 406. 

Yii Pao, 422. 

Yusuf, 489. 

Yu Wang, 28, 29. 

Yu Wen Hua Chi, Sui Yang Ti assas- 

sinated by, 130. 
Yzdegerd. sought protection of T'ang 

T'ai Tsung, 140. 



Zoroastrians, 157, 158. 






China's Revolution: 1911=1912 



By Edwin J. Dingle 

Author of "Across China on Foot" 

$7.50 (Postpaid in China) $6.00 to missionaries 
Profusely illustrated with excellent photographs and maps. 
The historical and political record of China's great Revolution 
and establishment of the Republic. Readable, reliable and full 
of human interest. 

Mr. Dingle was the correspondent of the "China Press" at 
Hankow during the Revolution and was able to get much first- 
hand information regarding the stirring events that brought the 
Manchu Dynasty to a close. He has travelled widely in the 
interior of China, is observant and passes a sound judgment on 
what happens. His book holds a permanent place in present-day 
literature upon China. 

H3T The Commercial Press, Istd., Publishers 



Outlines of Chinese History 

COMMERCIAL PRESS, LTD. 



# II ED 



it 
§ 
ft 

m 

m 

EfJ 



m 



m m 



ft IT 



•MP w 56* % 



In) $ 



*a£ #- »* Pl'ffi Hi* HJ £ 

«* W i?« _ a, _ IT _ * 



#2 



^ 

X 

* 



5 






to 
IK 



(0 



304002413044 
BINDING SECT. DEC 1 9 1980 



S"7 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 

— — — ____ __ ________ 



DS 

735 

L6 



Li t Ung Bing 

Outlines of Chinese histor 



Sig.Sam 



8IGMUND SAMUEL LIBRART 



•■■••■•■•••• 



;\m 






m 



vm 



m 



fell 



ifww 



g#i 



'■■.<"."■ 



I 



sua* 



1 



m 1111$ 



saBfflS 



Jflia 

Hi 




